Cell-fate reprograming is at the heart of development , yet very little is known about the molecular mechanisms promoting or inhibiting reprograming in intact organisms . elegans germline , reprograming germ cells into somatic cells requires chromatin perturbation . Here , we describe that such reprograming is facilitated by GLP-1/Notch signaling pathway . Through a combination of genetics , tissue-specific transcriptome analysis , and functional studies of candidate genes , we uncovered a possible explanation for this unexpected role of GLP-1/Notch . We propose that GLP-1/Notch promotes reprograming by activating specific genes , silenced by the Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) , and identify the conserved histone demethylase UTX-1 as a crucial GLP-1/Notch target facilitating reprograming . Cell-fate decisions are controlled , on the one hand , by intercellular signaling and , on the other hand , by intrinsic mechanisms such as epigenetic chromatin modifications . The Notch signaling pathway is a highly conserved and widespread signaling mechanism ( Artavanis-Tsakonas et al . , 1999; Greenwald and Kovall , 2013 ) , which has been implicated in key cell-fate decisions such as the decision between proliferation and differentiation ( Liu et al . In this setting , Notch inhibits reprograming . Conversely , Notch signaling promotes transdifferentiation of pancreatic acinar cells to ductal cells ( Sawey et al . Notch signaling can also affect reprograming in normal development . elegans , signaling through the GLP-1 and LIN-12 Notch receptors impedes reprograming during embryogenesis and , during larval development , signaling through LIN-12 is required for the conversion of a rectal epithelial cell into a motorneuron ( Jarriault et al . Therefore , the epigenetic regulation of stem cell identity in intact tissues remains poorly understood . Additionally , the impact of external cues , for example signaling from a stem cell niche to the recipient cell’s chromatin remains equally unresolved . By contrast , C . elegans has been used as a model to study reprograming in an intact organism ( Horner et al . In this model , germ cells can be directly reprogrammed into neurons by depleting specific chromatin modifiers such as LIN-53 ( Rbbp4/7 ) or components of PRC2 , and by concomitant overexpression of the transcription factor CHE-1 , which induces glutamatergic neuronal fate in a process which we refer to as Germ cell Conversion ( GeCo ) ( Tursun et al . Here , we identify the Notch signaling pathway as a critical player in this reprograming model . This was unanticipated , since signaling through the Notch receptor GLP-1 ( henceforth GLP-1Notch ) from the somatic gonadal niche is known to maintain germline stem cell/progenitor fate ( Kimble and Crittenden , 2007 ) . To understand this novel , reprograming-promoting role of GLP-1Notch , we combined genetics with tissue-specific expression profiling . We identified genes regulated by GLP-1Notch , including genes recently shown to maintain the germline stem/progenitor cells ( Kershner et al . Additionally , and unexpectedly , we found that many genes activated by GLP-1Notch signaling were also repressed by the cell fate-stabilizing chromatin regulator PRC2 . We show that GLP-1Notch and PRC2 have an antagonistic effect on germ cell-fate decisions and demonstrate co-regulation of their common target , utx-1 . Importantly , UTX-1 is a histone demethylase known to erase the gene-silencing methylation of histone H3 dependent on PRC2 ( Maures et al . Thus , we propose that the GLP-1Notch–dependent induction of UTX-1 facilitates reprograming by alleviating PRC2-mediated repression of alternative cell fates .
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a respiratory , blood , liver , and bladder pathogen of significant clinical concern . We show that the adaptor protein , SKAP2 , is required for protection against K . pneumoniae ( ATCC 43816 ) pulmonary infections . Skap2-/- mice had 100-fold higher bacterial burden when compared to wild-type and burden was controlled by SKAP2 expression in innate immune cells . Skap2-/- neutrophils and monocytes were present in infected lungs , and the neutrophils degranulated normally in response to K . pneumoniae infection in mice; however , K . pneumoniae-stimulated reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production in vitro was abolished . pneumoniae-induced neutrophil ROS response required the activity of SFKs , Syk , Btk , PLCγ2 , and PKC . The loss of SKAP2 significantly hindered the K . pneumoniae-induced phosphorylation of SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 implicating SKAP2 as proximal to their activation in pathogen-signaling pathways . In conclusion , SKAP2-dependent signaling in neutrophils is essential for K . pneumoniae-activated ROS production and for promoting bacterial clearance during infection . Klebsiella pneumoniae is an opportunistic Gram-negative pathogen that can cause a wide range of life-threatening infections , including pneumonia , sepsis and urinary tract infections ( Bengoechea and Sa Pessoa , 2019; Paczosa and Mecsas , 2016; European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control , 2018; Weiner et al . pneumoniae is a leading cause of hospital-associated infections with one recent study reporting that K . pneumoniae contributes to 7 . The increasing number of severe , and sometimes systemic , K . pneumoniae infections are largely attributed to a rise in antibiotic-resistant strains ( Falagas et al . , 2016 ) and hypervirulent strains that generate thicker capsules ( Zhang et al . , 2019; Lam et al . Highlighting the importance of the innate immune response , neutropenic patients are highly susceptible to life-threatening respiratory and bloodstream infections , including those caused by K . pneumoniae ( Zhu et al . pneumoniae lung pathogenesis has been extensively investigated in a mouse model using the rodent-adapted ATCC 43816 ( Bengoechea and Sa Pessoa , 2019; Lawlor et al . , 2015; Bachman et al . In murine models of infection , the K . pneumoniae 43816 strain robustly infects lungs eliciting a strong innate immune response through rapid and concurrent recruitment of neutrophils and iMOs to the infected lungs ( Lawlor et al . , 2015; Cai et al . , 2014; Ye et al . Work using this strain has revealed several genes that protect K . pneumoniae against the host neutrophil response ( Paczosa et al . Neutrophils are the first responder cell type for fighting against invading pathogens , however , their activation is tightly regulated to prevent severe tissue damage that have been correlated with several autoimmune and inflammatory diseases ( Mócsai , 2013 ) . At the site of infection , neutrophils can bind to pathogens leading to the activation of various killing mechanisms , including phagocytosis , generation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , degranulation , and release of neutrophil extracellular traps ( NETs ) ( Futosi et al . pneumoniae capsule decreases bacterial binding and internalization ( Regueiro et al . , 2013 ) , ROS , degranulation , NETs , and cytokine production have all been implicated in host defense against K . pneumoniae ( Bengoechea and Sa Pessoa , 2019; Chen et al . , 2005; Ivin et al . , 2010; Zhao et al . The importance of ROS in host protection is highlighted in the setting of Chronic Granulomatous Disease ( CGD ) , a disease characterized by genetic mutations in the NADPH oxidase , where patients are unable to make ROS and are susceptible to Klebsiella infections ( Wolach et al . Furthermore , mice with defective ROS production ( Cybb-/- ) have a higher bacterial burden than wild-type mice during K . pneumoniae lung infection ( Paczosa et al . Receptor-mediated ROS production in neutrophils is driven by signal-transduction pathways that activate components of the NADPH oxidase complex ( Nguyen et al . These signaling pathways are tightly regulated to prevent inappropriate activation and subsequent tissue damage ( Futosi et al . Work in mice suggests that signaling through integrin , mincle receptors , G-protein couple receptors ( GPCRs ) and toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) are critical for protection against K . pneumoniae infection ( Teng et al . In fact , multiple receptors may sense and/or bind to K . pneumoniae triggering ROS production . Prior studies have indicated a critical role for Src Kinase Associated Phosphoprotein-2 , SKAP2 ( SKAP-Hom and SKAP-55R ) downstream of integrin , and GPCRs in neutrophils and macrophages ( Boras et al . , 2017; Alenghat et al . SKAP2 , a cytosolic adaptor protein , is required for integrin-mediated ROS production , adhesion , and migration to sterile inflammatory sites through its interaction with mediators of actin rearrangement ( Alenghat et al . SKAP2 is also a target for inactivation by bacterial virulence factors , suggesting that it plays a key role in host defenses against infections ( Black et al . , 2000; Rolán et al . In humans , the Skap2 gene has been identified as a risk locus for Type 1 Diabetes , and Crohn’s disease ( Jostins et al . In resting cells , SKAP2 is thought to exist in an autoinhibitory conformation as a homodimer that is constitutively bound to PRAM-1 in neutrophils ( Moog-Lutz et al . , 2001; Rolán et al . , 2013 ) , or its homolog , ADAP , in other immune cells ( Liu et al . Upon receptor activation , SKAP2 changes to an active conformation that is localized to the plasma membrane , which allows it to interact other effector proteins including Src Family Kinases ( SFKs ) ( Bureau et al . , 1998; Liu et al . In addition , activated SKAP proteins can relay information from receptors to focal adhesion kinases ( FAK1/Pyk2 ) to other cytoskeletal mediators ( Ménasché et al . Using a murine model of K . pneumoniae 43816 infection , we characterized the role of SKAP2 in pulmonary host defense against K . pneumoniae in this study . We demonstrate that SKAP2-expressing neutrophils contributed to the pulmonary containment of K . Using murine neutrophils , we show that K . pneumoniae-induced ROS production requires SKAP2 , SFKs , Syk , PLCγ , Btk , and PKC , and that SKAP2 is required for maximal K . pneumoniae-activated phosphorylation of the tyrosine kinases SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 .
Plasmodium vivax relapse infections occur following activation of latent liver-stages parasites ( hypnozoites ) causing new blood-stage infections weeks to months after the initial infection . We develop a within-host mathematical model of liver-stage hypnozoites , and validate it against data from tropical strains of P . vivax . The within-host model is embedded in a P . vivax transmission model to demonstrate the build-up of the hypnozoite reservoir following new infections and its depletion through hypnozoite activation and death . Individuals with more hypnozoites are predicted to experience more relapses and contribute more to onwards P . vivax transmission . , 2014 ) , a class of mathematical models describing the transmission of a pathogen between human and vector hosts . In the case of P . falciparum , the parasite has a reservoir in both the human host and the Anopheles mosquito , with transmission occurring when a mosquito takes a blood meal from a human . falciparum transmission resulting in valuable guidance for historical and contemporary malaria control programmes , most notably the large reductions in transmission that are achievable if the lifespan of the mosquito is reduced through vector control ( Macdonald , 1952a; Macdonald , 1952b ) . falciparum malaria ( Smith et al . This is in spite of P . , 2009a; Gething et al . vivax as they fail to account for the reservoir of dormant liver stages ( hypnozoites ) which give rise to relapsing infections—one of the defining characteristics of the biology and epidemiology of P . vivax ( Mueller et al . When the origin of renewed parasitemia following primary P . vivax infection is unknown , it can be classified as a recurrent infection ( Battle et al . vivax transmission models as a state to denote hypnozoite infection ( Ishikawa et al . Here we advance on existing work by considering how the number of hypnozoites in the liver contributes to patterns of relapse infections and the epidemiology and control of P . vivax . vivax infected mosquito takes a blood meal from a human , sporozoites are injected into the skin and migrate to the liver , where they invade hepatocytes and develop into either actively dividing schizonts or dormant hypnozoites . The development of actively dividing schizonts may lead to a primary blood-stage infection and potentially clinical malaria ( Mueller et al . Hypnozoites will lie dormant in the liver for weeks to years before activating to initiate new blood-stage infections . The biological mechanisms regulating the activation of hypnozoites remain unknown ( Mueller et al . , 2009a ) , although a number of triggers for relapses have been proposed , including fever caused by other pathogens such as P . There is considerable geographical variation in the timing and frequency of P . For example , following a single infection with a tropical strain of P . vivax the time until next relapse has been observed to increase with each successive relapse ( Berliner et al . In contrast , temperate strains are associated with a long latency period until first relapse ( of the order of 6 months ) followed by short intervals between successive relapses ( Coatney et al . vivax relapses will thus require estimation of three key quantities: ( i ) the time to first relapse , ( ii ) the number of relapses per primary infection , and ( iii ) the duration of hypnozoite carriage . In this manuscript , a within-host model of hypnozoites in liver hepatocytes is developed to demonstrate that many of the epidemiological patterns of relapse infections can be explained by making the assumption that hypnozoites activate and die at a constant rate . This model is integrated into the existing theory of Ross-Macdonald models to account for the relapse infections characteristic of P . vivax malaria . vivax with vector control and anti-malarial drugs .
When 2 Mha of Amazonian forests are disturbed by selective logging each year , more than 90 Tg of carbon ( C ) is emitted to the atmosphere . Emissions are then counterbalanced by forest regrowth . With an original modelling approach , calibrated on a network of 133 permanent forest plots ( 175 ha total ) across Amazonia , we link regional differences in climate , soil and initial biomass with survivors’ and recruits’ C fluxes to provide Amazon-wide predictions of post-logging C recovery . We show that net aboveground C recovery over 10 years is higher in the Guiana Shield and in the west ( 21 ±3 Mg C ha-1 ) than in the south ( 12 ±3 Mg C ha-1 ) where environmental stress is high ( low rainfall , high seasonality ) . We highlight the key role of survivors in the forest regrowth and elaborate a comprehensive map of post-disturbance C recovery potential in Amazonia . With on-going climate change , attention is increasingly drawn to the impacts of human activities on carbon ( C ) cycles ( Griggs and Noguer , 2002 ) , and in particular to the 2 . Among those disturbances , selective logging , i . The extent of selective logging in the Brasilian Amazon was equivalent to annual deforestation in the same period , and resulted in C emissions of 90 Tg C yr-1 ( Huang and Asner , 2010 ) which increased anthropogenic C emissions by almost 25% over deforestation alone ( Asner et al . In contrast to deforested areas that are used for agriculture and grazing , most selectively logged forests remain as forested areas ( Asner et al . , 2006 ) and may recover C stocks ( West et al . Previously logged Amazonian forests may thus accumulate large amounts of C ( Pan et al . , 2011 ) , but this C uptake is difficult to accurately estimate , because while detecting selective logging from space is increasingly feasible ( Frolking et al . , 2009 ) ( even if very few of the IPCC models effectively account for logging ) , directly quantifying forest recovery remains challenging ( Asner et al . , 2009; Houghton et al . Studies based on field measurements ( e . , 2009; West et al . , 2014; Vidal et al . , 2016 ) , sometimes coupled with modeling approaches ( e . , 2007 ) or airborne light detection and ranging ( LiDAR ) measurements ( e . , 2014 ) have assessed post-logging dynamics at particular sites . Nonetheless , to our knowledge no spatially-explicit investigation of post-logging C dynamics at the Amazon biome scale is available . C losses from selective logging are determined by harvest intensity ( i . number of trees felled or volume of wood extracted ) plus the care with which harvest operations are conducted , which affects the amount of collateral damage . After logging , C losses continue for several years due to elevated mortality rates of trees injured during harvesting operations ( Shenkin et al . Logged forests may recover their aboveground carbon stocks ( ACS ) via enhanced growth of survivors and recruited trees ( Blanc et al . Full recovery of pre-disturbance ACS in logged stands reportedly requires up to 125 years , depending primarily on disturbance intensity ( Rutishauser et al . tree mortality , growth and recruitment ) are likely to vary with the clear geographical patterns in forest structure and dynamics across the Amazon Basin and Guiana Shield . , 2009 ) , wood density ( Baker et al . , 2004 ) , and floristic composition ( ter Steege et al . Such gradients coincide with climate and edaphic conditions that range from nearly a seasonal nutrient-limited in the northeast to seasonally dry and nutrient-rich in the southwest ( Quesada et al . Here we partition the contributions to post-disturbance ACS gain ( from growth and recruitment of trees ≥20 cm DBH ) and ACS loss ( from mortality ) of survivors and recruited trees to detect the main drivers and patterns of ACS recovery in forests disturbed by selective logging across Amazonia sensu lato ( that includes the Amazon Basin and the Guiana Shield ) . Based on long-term ( 8–30 year ) inventory data from 13 experimentally-disturbed sites ( Sist et al . , 2015 ) across Amazonia ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1 ) , 133 permanent forest plots ( 175 ha in total ) that cover a large gradient of disturbance intensities ( ACS losses ranging from 1% to 71% ) were used to model the trajectory of those post-disturbance ACS changes ( Figure 1 ) in a comprehensive Bayesian framework . We quantify the effect of pre-disturbance ecosystem characteristics [the site’s average pre-logging ACS ( a⁢c⁢s⁢0 ) and the relative difference between each plot and a⁢c⁢s⁢0 as a proxy of forest maturity ( d⁢a⁢c⁢s ) ] , disturbance intensity [percentage of pre-logging ACS lost ( l⁢o⁢s⁢s ) ] , and interactions with the environment [annual precipitation ( p⁢r⁢e⁢c ) , seasonality of precipitation ( s⁢e⁢a⁢s ) , and soil bulk density ( b⁢d ) ] ( Figure 2 ) on the rates at which post-disturbance ACS changes converge to a theoretical steady state ( as in Figure 1 , see Materials and methods for more details ) . , 2005 ) and soil bulk density ( Nachtergaele et al . , 2015; West et al . Summing these ACS changes over time gives the net post-disturbance rate of ACS accumulation . Disentangling ACS recovery into demographic processes and cohorts is essential to reveal mechanisms underlying ACS responses to disturbance and to make more robust predictions of ACS recovery compared to an all-in-one approach ( see Appendix ) . ACS changes are: recruits’ ACS growth ( orange ) , recruits’ ACS loss ( gold ) , new recruits’ ACS ( red ) , survivors’ ACS growth ( light green ) and survivors’ ACS loss ( dark green ) . Thick solid lines are the maximum-likelihood predictions ( for an average plot , when all covariates are null ) , and dashed lines are the model theoretical behaviour . New recruits’ ACS , recruits’ ACS growth , and recruits’ ACS loss converge over time to constant values . A dynamic equilibrium is then reached: ACS gain from recruitment and recruits’ growth compensate ACS loss from recruits’ mortality . Survivors’ ACS growth and loss . decline over time and tend to zero when all initial survivors have died . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Experimental sites location , each site being composed of permanent forest plots varying in logging intensities , census length ( colour ) and total area ( size ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . Effect of covariates on the rate at which post-disturbance ACS changes converge to a theoretical steady state ( in yr-1 ) . the proportion of initial ACS loss; mean site’s ACS ( a⁢c⁢s⁢0 ) , and relative forest maturity , i . pre-logging plot ACS as a % of a⁢c⁢s⁢0 ( d⁢a⁢c⁢s ) ; annual precipitation ( p⁢r⁢e⁢c ) ; seasonality of precipitation ( s⁢e⁢a⁢s ) , soil bulk density ( b⁢d ) . Covariates are centred and standardized . The median rate is the prediction of the convergence rate for an average plot ( when all covariates are set to zero ) . Negative covariate values indicate slowing and positive values indicate accelerating rates . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 006Figure 2—source data 1 . Parameters posterior distribution . 5% quantiles of the posterior distribution of the model parameters ( rows ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 007Figure 2—figure supplement 1 . Fitted vs observed values of cumulative ACS changes ( Mg C ha-1 ) . The closer the dots are to the x=y line , the better the prediction . Dot transparency is proportional to the observation weight: transparent dots are low-weight observations . Because mortality is a stochastic event , ACS loss has poorer predictions than ACS gain which is a more continuous process . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 .
Neurosphere formation is commonly used as a surrogate for neural stem cell ( NSC ) function but the relationship between neurosphere-initiating cells ( NICs ) and NSCs remains unclear . We prospectively identified , and isolated by flow cytometry , adult mouse lateral ventricle subventricular zone ( SVZ ) NICs as GlastmidEGFRhighPlexinB2highCD24−/lowO4/PSA-NCAM−/lowTer119/CD45− ( GEPCOT ) cells . They were highly mitotic and short-lived in vivo based on fate-mapping with Ascl1CreERT2 and Dlx1CreERT2 . In contrast , pre-GEPCOT cells were quiescent , expressed higher Glast , and lower EGFR and PlexinB2 . Pre-GEPCOT cells could not form neurospheres but expressed the stem cell markers Slc1a3-CreERT , GFAP-CreERT2 , Sox2CreERT2 , and Gli1CreERT2 and were long-lived in vivo . While GEPCOT NICs were ablated by temozolomide , pre-GEPCOT cells survived and repopulated the SVZ . Conditional deletion of the Bmi-1 polycomb protein depleted pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells , though pre-GEPCOT cells were more dependent upon Bmi-1 for Cdkn2a ( p16Ink4a ) repression . Our data distinguish quiescent NSCs from NICs and make it possible to study their properties in vivo . Neural stem cells ( NSCs ) reside in two regions of the adult mammalian forebrain: the subgranular zone in the dentate gyrus and the subventricular zone in the lateral wall of the lateral ventricle ( SVZ ) . SVZ NSCs persist throughout adult life ( Maslov et al . , 2008 ) , giving rise primarily to neurons in the olfactory bulb as well as some astrocytes in the olfactory bulb ( Lois and Alvarez-Buylla , 1994; Lois et al . , 2008; Chen et al . , 2009 ) and oligodendrocytes in the corpus callosum and cortex ( Nait-Oumesmar et al . , 1999a; Pastrana et al . , 2009 ) , resistant to anti-mitotic agents ( Morshead et al . , 1999b , 2002; Giachino and Taylor , 2009 ) , long-lived ( Ahn and Joyner , 2005; Imayoshi et al . , 2008 ) , and capable of regenerating the SVZ after injury ( Doetsch et al . Clonal colony-forming assays have been widely used to study neural stem/progenitor cells that give rise to neurons , astrocytes , and oligodendrocytes in adherent cultures ( Davis and Temple , 1994 ) and non-adherent neurosphere cultures ( Reynolds and Weiss , 1992 ) . However , in the adult forebrain it remains uncertain whether these colonies are formed by quiescent neural stem cells ( qNSCs ) or by mitotically active and shorter-lived multipotent progenitors ( Morshead et al . Moreover , reliance upon retrospective colony-formation assays makes it impossible to directly study qNSCs or NICs as they exist in vivo . Pioneering work by Alvarez-Buylla and colleagues has demonstrated the existence of a lineage of NSCs and transit amplifying cells in the SVZ that gives rise to neuronal progenitors throughout life ( Lois and Alvarez-Buylla , 1994; Doetsch et al . By electron microscopy and immunofluorescence analysis they identified GFAP-expressing type B cells that appear to be the qNSCs . These cells are resistant to anti-mitotic agents such as AraC and appear capable of repopulating the SVZ after AraC treatment ( Doetsch et al . Type B cells are thought to give rise to Ascl1- and Dlx2-expressing type C cells , which are mitotically active and ablated by anti-mitotic agents ( Morshead et al . The type C cells give rise to Dcx- and PSA-NCAM-expressing type A neuronal progenitors . These studies have provided a critical framework for understanding the SVZ neurogenic lineage , though the inability to purify live cells from each stage of this hierarchy has hampered efforts to assess their properties . The inability to prospectively identify and isolate uncultured stem cells from the central nervous system ( CNS ) has contributed to uncertainty regarding the relationship between qNSCs and NICs . SVZ NICs have been enriched by flow cytometry based on CD15 expression ( Capela and Temple , 2002 ) or ROS levels ( Le Belle et al . Multiple lines of evidence have demonstrated that NSCs express GFAP and that these cells sustainably contribute to neurogenesis in vivo ( Doetsch et al . identified quiescent GFAP-GFP+EGFR− SVZ cells and speculated that these cells include NSCs that give rise to more mitotically active GFAP-GFP+EGFR+ and GFAP-GFP-EGFR+ NICs but did not test this by fate-mapping ( Pastrana et al . In contrast , it has been suggested that nearly all GFAP-GFP+CD133+ cells are NICs and that these cells are the qNSCs in the SVZ ( Beckervordersandforth et al . Efforts toward prospective identification have therefore generated conflicting results about whether NICs are quiescent or mitotically active in vivo and regarding their relationship to NSCs . We have identified regulators of CNS stem cell self-renewal based on their ability to regulate SVZ proliferation and neurogenesis in vivo as well as multipotent NIC self-renewal in culture ( Molofsky et al . However , an important question that we have not been able to address directly is whether those genes are necessary for NSC maintenance in vivo . Impaired NIC self-renewal in culture may not reflect reduced NSC self-renewal in vivo ( Joseph and Morrison , 2005; He et al . For example , the polycomb transcriptional repressor Bmi-1 is thought to be required for NSC self-renewal ( Molofsky et al . , 2003; Bruggeman et al . , 2005; Bruggeman et al . However , these studies were performed in germline knockout mice that generally die within a month after birth ( van der Lugt et al . Thus , it has not been possible to test whether Bmi-1 is autonomously required by NSCs in the adult brain or whether NSCs differ from NICs in their dependence upon Bmi-1 . The pre-GEPCOTs accounted for 6 ± 3% of adult mouse SVZ cells , were highly quiescent , lacked the ability to form neurospheres or adherent colonies in culture , and included type B1 cells based on marker expression , morphology , and position in vivo . These cells contained long-lived qNSCs based on both fate mapping and temozolomide resistance . GEPCOTs were distinguished by lower GFAP and Glast expression and higher EGFR and PlexinB2 expression . These cells accounted for 3 . 7% of cells in the adult mouse SVZ , were highly mitotically active , highly enriched for NICs , and included type C cells based on marker expression , morphology , and position in vivo . Based on fate-mapping these cells were short-lived in the SVZ . Our data thus provide methods to prospectively identify and distinguish qNSCs from NICs .
Cryo-electron microscopy has revealed that the Piezo1 structure is bowl-shaped and capable of inducing membrane curvature via its extended footprint , which indirectly suggests that Piezo1 ion channels may bias each other’s spatial distribution and interact functionally . Here , we use cell-attached patch-clamp electrophysiology and pressure-clamp stimulation to functionally examine large numbers of membrane patches from cells expressing Piezo1 endogenously at low levels and cells overexpressing Piezo1 at high levels . Our data , together with stochastic simulations of Piezo1 spatial distributions , show that both at endogenous densities ( 1–2 channels/μm2 ) , and at non-physiological densities ( 10–100 channels/μm2 ) predicted to cause substantial footprint overlap , Piezo1 density has no effect on its pressure sensitivity or open probability in the nominal absence of membrane tension . We propose that this property is essential for cells to transduce forces homogeneously across the entire cell membrane . Cells are constantly exposed to mechanical forces and have evolved diverse molecular mechanisms that enable force detection . The rapid sensing of mechanical forces that occurs in milliseconds is achieved by force-gated ion channels that convert mechanical energy into electrochemical signals ( Kefauver et al . For example , Piezo1 is a mechanically gated cation channel that directly senses membrane tension ( T ) with high sensitivity ( Coste et al . However , the propagation of membrane tension away from its source has been shown to be relatively slow ( D ~ 0 . The degree to which forces are transduced homogeneously across the cell membrane likely depends not only on the dynamics of membrane tension propagation , but also on ( i ) the spatial distribution of force-gated ion channels , and ( ii ) on their functional independence . Any substantial deviation from a uniform distribution of force-gated ion channels will result in domains that fail to detect forces ( where there are no ion channels ) as well as domains that transduce forces disproportionately ( where many ion channels are nearby ) . Functional interactions and/or cooperativity between force-gated ion channels may further skew transduction efficiency or kinetics in a manner that depends on local channel density , effectively creating a patchwork of blind spots and sensitized areas . TIRF imaging of Piezo1 channels revealed their free diffusion over the surface of live neural stem/progenitor cells , indirectly suggesting channels are not tethered to other static structures and that random membrane distribution may be possible . Additional studies have proposed the existence of clusters with varying numbers of channels ( Jiang et al . , 2020 ) and at wound edges in keratinocytes ( Holt et al . A compelling theoretical framework predicting spatial and functional interactions between nearby Piezo channels has been constructed based on cryo-electron microscopy structures of Piezo1 , which revealed its large and extremely curved dome-shaped structure ( Guo and MacKinnon , 2017; Haselwandter and MacKinnon , 2018; Saotome et al . Theoretical calculations based on these structures suggest that Piezo1 can both sense and curve the proximal membrane with a characteristic decay length extending ~14 nm beyond the channel . The energetic cost of this membrane curvature implies that Piezo1 channels that are within ~3 decay lengths ( a ‘footprint’ of ~50 nm; see Materials and methods ) may influence each other via multiple mechanisms: opposing curvature may cause nearby Piezo1 channels to repel each other , as well as influence each other’s gating properties ( Haselwandter and MacKinnon , 2018 ) . Indeed , imaging of vesicles containing reconstituted Piezo1 has demonstrated the ability of Piezo1 to curve the membrane locally and suggested that flattening of the channel dome may directly couple to channel opening , but the precise effects of membrane energetics on gating have yet to be explored experimentally ( Jiang et al . Specifically , we use electrophysiology and large numbers of independent measurements to simultaneously quantify channel number and function , including single-channel current , open probability , and pressure sensitivity . We propose that this property enables cells to transduce forces with high spatial homogeneity across the entire cell membrane .
Many decisions are thought to arise via the accumulation of noisy evidence to a threshold or bound . In perception , the mechanism explains the effect of stimulus strength , characterized by signal-to-noise ratio , on decision speed , accuracy and confidence . An increase in noise should lead to faster decisions , reduced accuracy and , paradoxically , higher confidence . Decisions that combine information from different sources or across time are of special interest to neuroscience because they serve as a model of cognitive function . Psychologists have long sought to understand how the process of decision formation gives rise to three key observables ( Cartwright and Festinger , 1943; Audley , 1960; Vickers , 1979 ) . First there is the choice itself ( left or right , coffee or tea ) , which determines accuracy in cases where a correct alternative can be defined . Second , there is the time it takes to reach a decision , which determines reaction-time ( RT ) . RT furnishes a powerful constraint on models of decision-making , and is a defining element of the trade-off between speed and accuracy that characterizes most decisions . Third , decisions are often accompanied by a graded degree of belief in the accuracy or appropriateness of the choice . This belief , referred to as decision confidence , influences many aspects of behavior: how we learn from our mistakes , plan subsequent decisions , and communicate our decisions to others . The family of bounded evidence accumulation models , including drift diffusion , race and attractor models , offers one such framework for linking choice , reaction time and confidence [for reviews , see Gold and Shadlen ( 2007 ) ; Shadlen and Kiani ( 2013 ) ] . These models depict the decision process as a race between competing accumulators , each of which integrates momentary evidence for one alternative and against the others . The decision terminates when the accumulated evidence for one alternative , termed a decision variable ( DV ) , reaches a threshold or bound , thereby determining both the choice and the decision time . Confidence in the decision derives from a mapping between the DV and the probability that a decision based on this DV will be correct . The mapping is thought to incorporate the decision time or the state of the competing ( losing ) accumulator ( s ) , or both ( Vickers , 1979; Kiani and Shadlen , 2009; Zylberberg et al . , 2014; Van den Berg et al . The noisiness of the momentary evidence causes the DV to wander from its starting point , as in Brownian motion or diffusion , whereas the expectation ( i . Recent evidence from neurophysiology ( Kiani and Shadlen , 2009 ) , brain stimulation ( Fetsch et al . , 2014 ) , and psychophysics ( Kiani et al . Specifically , were it possible to leave unchanged the expectation of each sample of momentary evidence while boosting the noise associated with it , then the bounded accumulation of the noisier samples should lead to ( i ) lower accuracy when the expectation of the momentary evidence is strong , ( ii ) faster reaction times when the momentary evidence is weak , and ( iii ) increased confidence when the momentary evidence is weak . Predicted influence of volatility on reaction time and confidence under bounded evidence accumulation . ( A ) ev1 ( t ) and ev2 ( t ) represent the time course of momentary evidence , for stimuli of low and high volatility , respectively . Bound-crossing simultaneously resolves the choice that is made and the time it takes to make it ( decision time; the reaction time also includes a nondecision component , not shown ) . As in the single trial example , higher variance leads to faster responses . ( C ) Heat map depicting the association between the state of accumulated evidence and the probability that a decision rendered on this evidence is correct . The structure in this graph arises because there are several difficulty levels . , high motion coherence ) , which support high accuracy , contribute to large vertical excursions of the decision variable away from the starting point ( midpoint of the ordinate ) at short elapsed time , whereas less reliable stimuli contribute to equivalent vertical excursions at later times . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . A dissociation between accuracy and confidence led Rahnev et al . ( 2012 ) to conclude that transcranial magnetic stimulation ( TMS ) increased the neural noise associated with the representation of a visual pattern , and a similar dissociation led Fetsch et al . , 2011; Morales et al . , 2015 ) did not characterize the influence of these manipulations on the neural signals that the brain accumulates to form a decision . We therefore sought a method to manipulate the variance associated with the neural representation of momentary evidence without affecting its mean . We achieved this with a manipulation of the motion information in a random dot motion ( RDM ) display , by adding a second level of randomness which increased its volatility but was unbiased with respect to the strength and direction of motion evidence . We then used the volatility manipulation to test the influence of noise on the three observables of choice behavior—accuracy , RT and confidence—in monkeys and humans .
The insulin-like signaling pathway maintains a relatively short wild-type lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans by phosphorylating and inactivating DAF-16 , the ortholog of the FOXO transcription factors of mammalian cells . DAF-16 is phosphorylated by the AKT kinases , preventing its nuclear translocation . elegans Calcineurin and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase type II ( CAMKII ) orthologs , respectively , also regulate lifespan through DAF-16 . Moreover , UNC-43 regulates DAF-16 in response to various stress conditions , including starvation , heat or oxidative stress , and cooperatively contributes to lifespan regulation by insulin signaling . However , unlike insulin signaling , UNC-43 phosphorylates and activates DAF-16 , thus promoting its nuclear localization . The phosphorylation of DAF-16 at S286 by UNC-43 is removed by TAX-6•CNB-1 , leading to DAF-16 inactivation . Multiple signaling pathways , including insulin/IGF-1 signaling ( IIS ) , germline signaling , mitochondrial signaling , and the signaling pathways induced by dietary restriction , regulate aging in C . The best characterized is the IIS pathway , which includes the upstream insulin/IGF-1 receptor DAF-2 and the downstream FOXO transcription factor DAF-16 . Signals from DAF-2 are transmitted through AGE-1 ( phosphoinositide 3-kinase ) and PDK-1 ( phosphoinositol-dependent kinase-1 ) to AKT-1 , AKT-2 , and SGK-1 , which phosphorylate DAF-16 and prevent it from translocating to the nucleus to activate a pro-longevity gene network . Reduction-of-function mutations of the kinase genes in the IIS pathway , from daf-2 to akt-1 , akt-2 , and sgk-1 , all extend lifespan in a daf-16-dependent manner ( Kenyon et al . The only known example is PPTR-1 , a B56 regulatory subunit of PP2A , which directs PP2A to dephosphorylate AKT-1 at T350 , thereby inactivating the kinase ( Padmanabhan et al . The phosphatase for DAF-2 has not been identified , nor the one that regulates DAF-16 . Previously , loss-of-function ( lf ) mutants for tax-6 and cnb-1 , which encode the catalytic and regulatory subunits of C . elegans Calcineurin , respectively , were found to live longer than wild-type ( WT ) worms ( Dong et al . In mammalian systems , Calcineurin ( PP2B ) is a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent serine/threonine protein phosphatase that has diverse functions and affects both T cell activation and heart development ( Crabtree , 1999 ) . elegans , Calcineurin regulates body size , thermotaxis , muscle contraction , and lifespan ( Bandyopadhyay et al . , 2002; Lee et al . The longevity phenotype of tax-6 ( lf ) is partially dependent on daf-16 ( Dong et al . elegans Calcineurin can regulate lifespan by suppressing autophagy ( Dwivedi et al . , 2009 ) or inactivating CRTC-1 , a co-activator of CREB ( Mair et al . In the current work , we addressed how worm Calcineurin TAX-6•CNB-1 regulates lifespan . We discovered that DAF-16 was phosphorylated and activated by UNC-43 at the serine 286 ( S286 ) site . The phosphoryl group was removed by TAX-6•CNB-1 . This regulatory mechanism has a different mode of action from the canonical IIS pathway because the phosphorylation activates , rather than represses , DAF-16 . Activation of DAF-16 by UNC-43 occurs in response to different types of stress signals , such as heat , starvation , and oxidation . UNC-43 and TAX-6•CNB-1 can regulate DAF-16 independently of IIS , and the two signaling mechanisms appear to crosstalk , leading to coordinated action on DAF-16 .
This enabled competition experiments revealing that the motor programs are organized into a suppression hierarchy; motor programs that occur first suppress those that occur later . Cleaning one body part reduces the sensory drive to its motor program , which relieves suppression of the next movement , allowing the grooming sequence to progress down the hierarchy . A model featuring independently evoked cleaning movements activated in parallel , but selected serially through hierarchical suppression , was successful in reproducing the grooming sequence . This provides the first example of an innate motor sequence implemented by the prevailing model for generating human action sequences . Animals engage in a variety of complex serial behaviors that are essential for survival , such as nest building , communication , courtship , and prey capture . While our understanding of how motor actions are produced expands ( Marder et al . One hypothesis suggests that each action in a series triggers performance of the next action ( James , 1890; Adams , 1984 ) . This is one of the earliest views of motor sequencing and is thought to underlie some sequential behaviors , such as bird song ( Long et al . This model was originally proposed based on human psychology experiments demonstrating a parallel representation of letter typing acts prior to the typing of a word . One strategy for testing how serial behavior is executed is to first identify the individual motor actions that make up the behavior and to then use neural control over each action to investigate how its manipulation affects the progression of the other actions in the series . Independent control of each action in a sequence is challenging to achieve in most systems . This approach has revealed that acute neural activation can trigger specific behaviors and subcomponents of behaviors , such as abdominal bending and courtship song ( two subcomponents of the courtship sequence ) ( Clyne and Miesenböck , 2008; von Philipsborn et al . , 2011; Flood et al . While these tools have invigorated interest in identifying the neurons that drive behavior , they also enable experiments to probe the organization of serial behavior through specific control of individual motor actions . Local mechanical stimulation of a body part causes fruit flies to perform precisely targeted cleaning sweeps with their front or hind legs towards that body part ( Vandervorst and Ghysen , 1980; Corfas and Dudai , 1989 ) . We reasoned that we could exploit the behavior of such dust-coated flies to determine how different grooming actions are prioritized and ordered when they are stimulated at the same time . We show that dust on the body elicits different independently evoked cleaning motor programs for five body parts that progress in series . By genetically targeting different neural subsets , we gain experimental control over each cleaning motor program to demonstrate that they are organized into a suppression hierarchy . We next generate an empirically derived computational model that demonstrates how a suppression hierarchy can mediate the sequential selection of the cleaning motor programs . This work reveals how the organization of Drosophila grooming is well described by a parallel model of serial behavior . ( A ) Diagram of body parts cleaned by front leg ( red hues ) or hind leg ( green hues ) movements . ( B ) Body parts were imaged ( dusted samples ) and aligned to clean reference images in order to determine the fraction of dust left on each part . ( C ) Average spatial distribution of dust 0 min after dusting and after flies groomed for 35 min . The number of flies contributing to each heat map is displayed . ( D ) Dust removal across a 35-min time course . Masks define regions for counting the yellow pixels ( dust ) remaining on each sample . Each time point ( normalized to 0-min samples ) is plotted as the fraction of dust left in the defined regions and shown as the mean ± SEM; n ≥ 26 flies . Figure panel is compiled from data shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 3 . All head cleaning movements are binned because eye and antennal cleaning are not easily distinguishable in the dusted state using our analysis methods ( labeled whole head ) . ( F ) Latency to the first bout of head , abdomen , or wing cleaning after dusting for each of six flies annotated . ( G ) Transitions among different body cleaning movements , standing , and walking ( across a 25-min time course , n = 6 flies ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Grooming apparatus for dusting , recording , and observing flies . ( A ) Mesh-covered chambers allow free dust to exit while preventing flies from escaping . Connector side shown with some wells closed using slider gates . ( B ) Sliders gate the chambers for transferring flies and preventing escape . ( D ) The connector side fits standard multiwell plates for fly dusting ( not shown ) , clear viewing plugs for recording videos ( D ) , and an adaptor for transferring flies between chambers ( not shown ) . ( D ) Image from a video recording of a dusted fly used to score cleaning movements . ( E and F ) Shows the aluminum version of the apparatus for rapid cooling of flies . 6 mm in diameter . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 005Figure 1—figure supplement 2 . Strategies for quantifying dust on the body surface . ( A ) Examples of dusted flies that were allowed to groom for 1 min before their heads were dissected and imaged ( showing 6 of 31 total images for this time point ) . ( B ) Each image was manually warped to a standard head ( shown in Figure 1B ) , the dust-positive yellow pixels were isolated and converted to grayscale , and all dust pixels were set to 255 intensity values ( 8 bit ) . ( D ) A grayscale color map was produced using the average projection intensity values . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 006Figure 1—figure supplement 3 . Data shown here is compiled and plotted in Figure 1D . Masks used for defining regions of the body parts for counting dust pixels are shown on top . Each point on the plots represents the number of yellow pixels from the body part sample images . The mean is shown as a red line , 1 . ( C ) Curve fit summary of each body part . Values represent the time it took for flies to clean fifty percent of each body part . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 007Figure 1—figure supplement 4 . Sequential cleaning of the head , abdomen , and wings requires dust . Head cleaning movements are all binned because of the difficulty distinguishing between eye and antennal cleaning when flies were dusted ( labeled whole head ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 008Figure 1—figure supplement 5 . Data were collected from 25 min of manually scored video ( n = 6 flies for each treatment ) . Movements were binned into whole head , abdomen , wing , and leg rubbing . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 009Figure 1—figure supplement 6 . Diagrams are generated from manually scored video in 5-min bins , over a 25-min time course ( n = 6 flies ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 .
