Cell-fate reprograming is at the heart of development , yet very little is known about the molecular mechanisms promoting or inhibiting reprograming in intact organisms . In the C . elegans germline , reprograming germ cells into somatic cells requires chromatin perturbation . Here , we describe that such reprograming is facilitated by GLP-1/Notch signaling pathway . This is surprising , since this pathway is best known for maintaining undifferentiated germline stem cells/progenitors . Through a combination of genetics , tissue-specific transcriptome analysis , and functional studies of candidate genes , we uncovered a possible explanation for this unexpected role of GLP-1/Notch . We propose that GLP-1/Notch promotes reprograming by activating specific genes , silenced by the Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) , and identify the conserved histone demethylase UTX-1 as a crucial GLP-1/Notch target facilitating reprograming . These findings have wide implications , ranging from development to diseases associated with abnormal Notch signaling .  Cell-fate decisions are controlled , on the one hand , by intercellular signaling and , on the other hand , by intrinsic mechanisms such as epigenetic chromatin modifications . The Notch signaling pathway is a highly conserved and widespread signaling mechanism ( Artavanis-Tsakonas et al . , 1999; Greenwald and Kovall , 2013 ) , which has been implicated in key cell-fate decisions such as the decision between proliferation and differentiation ( Liu et al . , 2010 ) . Notch signaling has also been implicated in cellular reprograming . Upon inhibition of Notch signaling , the oncogenic genes KLF4 and cMyc become dispensable for the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells ( iPSCs ) from mouse and human keratinocytes ( Ichida et al . , 2014 ) . In this setting , Notch inhibits reprograming . Conversely , Notch signaling promotes transdifferentiation of pancreatic acinar cells to ductal cells ( Sawey et al . , 2007 ) , or the conversion of hepatocytes into biliary cells in liver primary malignancy intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ( ICC ) ( Sekiya and Suzuki , 2012 ) . Notch signaling can also affect reprograming in normal development . In C . elegans , signaling through the GLP-1 and LIN-12 Notch receptors impedes reprograming during embryogenesis and , during larval development , signaling through LIN-12 is required for the conversion of a rectal epithelial cell into a motorneuron ( Jarriault et al . , 2008; Djabrayan et al . , 2012 ) . The role of epigenetic regulators in cell-fate decisions has been studied mostly in pluripotent cells cultured outside of their normal tissue environment ( Meshorer and Misteli , 2006; Spivakov and Fisher , 2007; Lessard and Crabtree , 2010; Orkin and Hochedlinger , 2011 ) . Therefore , the epigenetic regulation of stem cell identity in intact tissues remains poorly understood . Additionally , the impact of external cues , for example signaling from a stem cell niche to the recipient cell’s chromatin remains equally unresolved . By contrast , C . elegans has been used as a model to study reprograming in an intact organism ( Horner et al . , 1998; Fukushige et al . , 1998; Zhu et al . , 1998; Fukushige and Krause , 2005; Ciosk et al . , 2006; Jarriault et al . , 2008; Yuzyuk et al . , 2009; Riddle et al . , 2013 ) . In this model , germ cells can be directly reprogrammed into neurons by depleting specific chromatin modifiers such as LIN-53 ( Rbbp4/7 ) or components of PRC2 , and by concomitant overexpression of the transcription factor CHE-1 , which induces glutamatergic neuronal fate in a process which we refer to as Germ cell Conversion ( GeCo ) ( Tursun et al . , 2011; Patel et al . , 2012 ) . Here , we identify the Notch signaling pathway as a critical player in this reprograming model . This was unanticipated , since signaling through the Notch receptor GLP-1 ( henceforth GLP-1Notch ) from the somatic gonadal niche is known to maintain germline stem cell/progenitor fate ( Kimble and Crittenden , 2007 ) . To understand this novel , reprograming-promoting role of GLP-1Notch , we combined genetics with tissue-specific expression profiling . We identified genes regulated by GLP-1Notch , including genes recently shown to maintain the germline stem/progenitor cells ( Kershner et al . , 2014 ) . Additionally , and unexpectedly , we found that many genes activated by GLP-1Notch signaling were also repressed by the cell fate-stabilizing chromatin regulator PRC2 . We show that GLP-1Notch and PRC2 have an antagonistic effect on germ cell-fate decisions and demonstrate co-regulation of their common target , utx-1 . Importantly , UTX-1 is a histone demethylase known to erase the gene-silencing methylation of histone H3 dependent on PRC2 ( Maures et al . , 2011; Jin et al . , 2011; Vandamme et al . , 2012 ) . Thus , we propose that the GLP-1Notch–dependent induction of UTX-1 facilitates reprograming by alleviating PRC2-mediated repression of alternative cell fates . 
Klebsiella pneumoniae is a respiratory , blood , liver , and bladder pathogen of significant clinical concern . We show that the adaptor protein , SKAP2 , is required for protection against K . pneumoniae ( ATCC 43816 ) pulmonary infections . Skap2-/- mice had 100-fold higher bacterial burden when compared to wild-type and burden was controlled by SKAP2 expression in innate immune cells . Skap2-/- neutrophils and monocytes were present in infected lungs , and the neutrophils degranulated normally in response to K . pneumoniae infection in mice; however , K . pneumoniae-stimulated reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production in vitro was abolished . K . pneumoniae-induced neutrophil ROS response required the activity of SFKs , Syk , Btk , PLCγ2 , and PKC . The loss of SKAP2 significantly hindered the K . pneumoniae-induced phosphorylation of SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 implicating SKAP2 as proximal to their activation in pathogen-signaling pathways . In conclusion , SKAP2-dependent signaling in neutrophils is essential for K . pneumoniae-activated ROS production and for promoting bacterial clearance during infection .  Klebsiella pneumoniae is an opportunistic Gram-negative pathogen that can cause a wide range of life-threatening infections , including pneumonia , sepsis and urinary tract infections ( Bengoechea and Sa Pessoa , 2019; Paczosa and Mecsas , 2016; European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control , 2018; Weiner et al . , 2016 ) . K . pneumoniae is a leading cause of hospital-associated infections with one recent study reporting that K . pneumoniae contributes to 7 . 7% of cases from over 4500 hospitals ( Weiner et al . , 2016 ) . The increasing number of severe , and sometimes systemic , K . pneumoniae infections are largely attributed to a rise in antibiotic-resistant strains ( Falagas et al . , 2014; European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control , 2018; Kobayashi et al . , 2016 ) and hypervirulent strains that generate thicker capsules ( Zhang et al . , 2016; Harada et al . , 2019; Lam et al . , 2018 ) . Highlighting the importance of the innate immune response , neutropenic patients are highly susceptible to life-threatening respiratory and bloodstream infections , including those caused by K . pneumoniae ( Zhu et al . , 2018; Micozzi et al . , 2017 ) . K . pneumoniae lung pathogenesis has been extensively investigated in a mouse model using the rodent-adapted ATCC 43816 ( Bengoechea and Sa Pessoa , 2019; Lawlor et al . , 2005; Xiong et al . , 2015; Bachman et al . , 2015; Vornhagen et al . , 2019; Batra et al . , 2012 ) . In murine models of infection , the K . pneumoniae 43816 strain robustly infects lungs eliciting a strong innate immune response through rapid and concurrent recruitment of neutrophils and iMOs to the infected lungs ( Lawlor et al . , 2005; Xiong et al . , 2015; Cai et al . , 2010; Batra et al . , 2012; Sharma et al . , 2014; Ye et al . , 2001 ) . Work using this strain has revealed several genes that protect K . pneumoniae against the host neutrophil response ( Paczosa et al . , 2020; Silver et al . , 2019 ) . Neutrophils are the first responder cell type for fighting against invading pathogens , however , their activation is tightly regulated to prevent severe tissue damage that have been correlated with several autoimmune and inflammatory diseases ( Mócsai , 2013 ) . At the site of infection , neutrophils can bind to pathogens leading to the activation of various killing mechanisms , including phagocytosis , generation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , degranulation , and release of neutrophil extracellular traps ( NETs ) ( Futosi et al . , 2013; Nguyen et al . , 2017; Mócsai , 2013 ) . Although the K . pneumoniae capsule decreases bacterial binding and internalization ( Regueiro et al . , 2006; March et al . , 2013 ) , ROS , degranulation , NETs , and cytokine production have all been implicated in host defense against K . pneumoniae ( Bengoechea and Sa Pessoa , 2019; Chen et al . , 2016; Hirche et al . , 2005; Ivin et al . , 2017; Paczosa et al . , 2020; Papayannopoulos et al . , 2010; Zhao et al . , 2015 ) . The importance of ROS in host protection is highlighted in the setting of Chronic Granulomatous Disease ( CGD ) , a disease characterized by genetic mutations in the NADPH oxidase , where patients are unable to make ROS and are susceptible to Klebsiella infections ( Wolach et al . , 2017; Bortoletto et al . , 2015 ) . Furthermore , mice with defective ROS production ( Cybb-/- ) have a higher bacterial burden than wild-type mice during K . pneumoniae lung infection ( Paczosa et al . , 2020 ) . Receptor-mediated ROS production in neutrophils is driven by signal-transduction pathways that activate components of the NADPH oxidase complex ( Nguyen et al . , 2017; Futosi et al . , 2013 ) . These signaling pathways are tightly regulated to prevent inappropriate activation and subsequent tissue damage ( Futosi et al . , 2013 ) . Work in mice suggests that signaling through integrin , mincle receptors , G-protein couple receptors ( GPCRs ) and toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) are critical for protection against K . pneumoniae infection ( Teng et al . , 2016; Sharma et al . , 2014; Sharma et al . , 2017; Regueiro et al . , 2006; Galvão et al . , 2018; Bengoechea and Sa Pessoa , 2019 ) . In fact , multiple receptors may sense and/or bind to K . pneumoniae triggering ROS production . Prior studies have indicated a critical role for Src Kinase Associated Phosphoprotein-2 , SKAP2 ( SKAP-Hom and SKAP-55R ) downstream of integrin , and GPCRs in neutrophils and macrophages ( Boras et al . , 2017; Alenghat et al . , 2012; Swanson et al . , 2008; Tanaka et al . , 2016; Mócsai et al . , 2002; Togni et al . , 2005 ) . SKAP2 , a cytosolic adaptor protein , is required for integrin-mediated ROS production , adhesion , and migration to sterile inflammatory sites through its interaction with mediators of actin rearrangement ( Alenghat et al . , 2012; Boras et al . , 2017; Shimamura et al . , 2013; Tanaka et al . , 2016 ) . SKAP2 is also a target for inactivation by bacterial virulence factors , suggesting that it plays a key role in host defenses against infections ( Black et al . , 2000; Rolán et al . , 2013 ) . In humans , the Skap2 gene has been identified as a risk locus for Type 1 Diabetes , and Crohn’s disease ( Jostins et al . , 2012; Barrett et al . , 2009 ) . In resting cells , SKAP2 is thought to exist in an autoinhibitory conformation as a homodimer that is constitutively bound to PRAM-1 in neutrophils ( Moog-Lutz et al . , 2001; Rolán et al . , 2013 ) , or its homolog , ADAP , in other immune cells ( Liu et al . , 1998; Marie-Cardine et al . , 1998; Black et al . , 2000; Ophir et al . , 2013 ) . Upon receptor activation , SKAP2 changes to an active conformation that is localized to the plasma membrane , which allows it to interact other effector proteins including Src Family Kinases ( SFKs ) ( Bureau et al . , 2018; Marie-Cardine et al . , 1998; Liu et al . , 1998 ) . In addition , activated SKAP proteins can relay information from receptors to focal adhesion kinases ( FAK1/Pyk2 ) to other cytoskeletal mediators ( Ménasché et al . , 2007; Boras et al . , 2017; Tanaka et al . , 2016; Raab et al . , 2017; Ophir et al . , 2013 ) . Using a murine model of K . pneumoniae 43816 infection , we characterized the role of SKAP2 in pulmonary host defense against K . pneumoniae in this study . We demonstrate that SKAP2-expressing neutrophils contributed to the pulmonary containment of K . pneumoniae in lungs independent of inflammatory monocytes . Using murine neutrophils , we show that K . pneumoniae-induced ROS production requires SKAP2 , SFKs , Syk , PLCγ , Btk , and PKC , and that SKAP2 is required for maximal K . pneumoniae-activated phosphorylation of the tyrosine kinases SFKs , Syk , and Pyk2 . 
Plasmodium vivax relapse infections occur following activation of latent liver-stages parasites ( hypnozoites ) causing new blood-stage infections weeks to months after the initial infection . We develop a within-host mathematical model of liver-stage hypnozoites , and validate it against data from tropical strains of P . vivax . The within-host model is embedded in a P . vivax transmission model to demonstrate the build-up of the hypnozoite reservoir following new infections and its depletion through hypnozoite activation and death . The hypnozoite reservoir is predicted to be over-dispersed with many individuals having few or no hypnozoites , and some having intensely infected livers . Individuals with more hypnozoites are predicted to experience more relapses and contribute more to onwards P . vivax transmission . Incorporating hypnozoite killing drugs such as primaquine into first-line treatment regimens is predicted to cause substantial reductions in P . vivax transmission as individuals with the most hypnozoites are more likely to relapse and be targeted for treatment .  The study of the transmission dynamics of vector-borne diseases such as Plasmodium falciparum malaria has a rich history , with a theoretical foundation based on the Ross-Macdonald models ( malERA Consultative Group on Modeling , 2011; Smith et al . , 2012; Reiner et al . , 2013; Smith et al . , 2014 ) , a class of mathematical models describing the transmission of a pathogen between human and vector hosts . In the case of P . falciparum , the parasite has a reservoir in both the human host and the Anopheles mosquito , with transmission occurring when a mosquito takes a blood meal from a human . Ross-Macdonald models have provided insights into the dynamics of P . falciparum transmission resulting in valuable guidance for historical and contemporary malaria control programmes , most notably the large reductions in transmission that are achievable if the lifespan of the mosquito is reduced through vector control ( Macdonald , 1952a; Macdonald , 1952b ) . In contrast to the extensive theory of the mathematical epidemiology of P . falciparum malaria ( Smith et al . , 2012 ) , P . vivax malaria has been comparatively neglected . This is in spite of P . vivax being the geographically most widely distributed species of malaria in the world , causing in the region of 80–300 million clinical episodes every year ( Mueller et al . , 2009a; Gething et al . , 2012 ) . P . falciparum models are not applicable to P . vivax as they fail to account for the reservoir of dormant liver stages ( hypnozoites ) which give rise to relapsing infections—one of the defining characteristics of the biology and epidemiology of P . vivax ( Mueller et al . , 2009a ) . In natural transmission settings relapses are often undistinguishable from re-infections from new mosquito bites or recrudescences of existing blood-stage infections . When the origin of renewed parasitemia following primary P . vivax infection is unknown , it can be classified as a recurrent infection ( Battle et al . , 2014 ) . Most existing models of malaria transmission do not account for the additional reservoir of parasites in the liver , but the hypnozoite reservoir has been incorporated into some P . vivax transmission models as a state to denote hypnozoite infection ( Ishikawa et al . , 2003; Chamchod and Beier , 2013; Roy et al . , 2013 ) or as up to two broods of hypnozoites ( Dezoysa et al . , 1991 ) . Relapse patterns and their implications for transmission have also been investigated using statistical distributions for the time to first relapse ( Lover et al . , 2014 ) . Here we advance on existing work by considering how the number of hypnozoites in the liver contributes to patterns of relapse infections and the epidemiology and control of P . vivax . When a P . vivax infected mosquito takes a blood meal from a human , sporozoites are injected into the skin and migrate to the liver , where they invade hepatocytes and develop into either actively dividing schizonts or dormant hypnozoites . The development of actively dividing schizonts may lead to a primary blood-stage infection and potentially clinical malaria ( Mueller et al . , 2013 ) . Hypnozoites will lie dormant in the liver for weeks to years before activating to initiate new blood-stage infections . The biological mechanisms regulating the activation of hypnozoites remain unknown ( Mueller et al . , 2009a ) , although a number of triggers for relapses have been proposed , including fever caused by other pathogens such as P . falciparum ( Shanks and White , 2013 ) and exposure to Anopheles-specific proteins ( Hulden and Hulden , 2011 ) . There is considerable geographical variation in the timing and frequency of P . vivax relapse infections , with strains from tropical areas having an average time to first relapse of 3–6 weeks and long-latency strains from temperate areas relapsing within 6–9 months ( Lover and Coker , 2013; Battle et al . , 2014 ) . Beyond the first relapse , periodic patterns in multiple relapses from a single mosquito bite have been observed ( White , 2011 ) . For example , following a single infection with a tropical strain of P . vivax the time until next relapse has been observed to increase with each successive relapse ( Berliner et al . , 1948; White , 2011 ) . In contrast , temperate strains are associated with a long latency period until first relapse ( of the order of 6 months ) followed by short intervals between successive relapses ( Coatney et al . , 1950; Hankey et al . , 1953; White , 2011 ) . A descriptive epidemiology of P . vivax relapses will thus require estimation of three key quantities: ( i ) the time to first relapse , ( ii ) the number of relapses per primary infection , and ( iii ) the duration of hypnozoite carriage . In this manuscript , a within-host model of hypnozoites in liver hepatocytes is developed to demonstrate that many of the epidemiological patterns of relapse infections can be explained by making the assumption that hypnozoites activate and die at a constant rate . This model is integrated into the existing theory of Ross-Macdonald models to account for the relapse infections characteristic of P . vivax malaria . We use this model to provide qualitative insights into the relative contribution of relapses to P . vivax transmission and illustrate the consequences for controlling P . vivax with vector control and anti-malarial drugs . 
When 2 Mha of Amazonian forests are disturbed by selective logging each year , more than 90 Tg of carbon ( C ) is emitted to the atmosphere . Emissions are then counterbalanced by forest regrowth . With an original modelling approach , calibrated on a network of 133 permanent forest plots ( 175 ha total ) across Amazonia , we link regional differences in climate , soil and initial biomass with survivors’ and recruits’ C fluxes to provide Amazon-wide predictions of post-logging C recovery . We show that net aboveground C recovery over 10 years is higher in the Guiana Shield and in the west ( 21 ±3 Mg C ha-1 ) than in the south ( 12 ±3 Mg C ha-1 ) where environmental stress is high ( low rainfall , high seasonality ) . We highlight the key role of survivors in the forest regrowth and elaborate a comprehensive map of post-disturbance C recovery potential in Amazonia .  With on-going climate change , attention is increasingly drawn to the impacts of human activities on carbon ( C ) cycles ( Griggs and Noguer , 2002 ) , and in particular to the 2 . 1 ± 1 . 1 Pg C yr-1 of C loss caused by various forms and intensities of anthropogenic disturbances in tropical forests ( Grace et al . , 2014 ) . Among those disturbances , selective logging , i . e . the selective harvest of a few merchantable tree species , is particularly widespread: in the Brazilian Amazon alone , about 2 Mha yr−1 were logged in 1999–2002 ( Asner et al . , 2005 ) . The extent of selective logging in the Brasilian Amazon was equivalent to annual deforestation in the same period , and resulted in C emissions of 90 Tg C yr-1 ( Huang and Asner , 2010 ) which increased anthropogenic C emissions by almost 25% over deforestation alone ( Asner et al . , 2005 ) . In contrast to deforested areas that are used for agriculture and grazing , most selectively logged forests remain as forested areas ( Asner et al . , 2006 ) and may recover C stocks ( West et al . , 2014 ) . Previously logged Amazonian forests may thus accumulate large amounts of C ( Pan et al . , 2011 ) , but this C uptake is difficult to accurately estimate , because while detecting selective logging from space is increasingly feasible ( Frolking et al . , 2009 ) ( even if very few of the IPCC models effectively account for logging ) , directly quantifying forest recovery remains challenging ( Asner et al . , 2009; Houghton et al . , 2012; Goetz et al . , 2015 ) . Studies based on field measurements ( e . g . Sist and Ferreira , 2007; Blanc et al . , 2009; West et al . , 2014; Vidal et al . , 2016 ) , sometimes coupled with modeling approaches ( e . g . Gourlet-Fleury et al . , 2005; Valle et al . , 2007 ) or airborne light detection and ranging ( LiDAR ) measurements ( e . g . Andersen et al . , 2014 ) have assessed post-logging dynamics at particular sites . Nonetheless , to our knowledge no spatially-explicit investigation of post-logging C dynamics at the Amazon biome scale is available . C losses from selective logging are determined by harvest intensity ( i . e . number of trees felled or volume of wood extracted ) plus the care with which harvest operations are conducted , which affects the amount of collateral damage . After logging , C losses continue for several years due to elevated mortality rates of trees injured during harvesting operations ( Shenkin et al . , 2015 ) . Logged forests may recover their aboveground carbon stocks ( ACS ) via enhanced growth of survivors and recruited trees ( Blanc et al . , 2009 ) . Full recovery of pre-disturbance ACS in logged stands reportedly requires up to 125 years , depending primarily on disturbance intensity ( Rutishauser et al . , 2015 ) . The underlying recovery processes ( i . e . tree mortality , growth and recruitment ) are likely to vary with the clear geographical patterns in forest structure and dynamics across the Amazon Basin and Guiana Shield . In particular , northeast-southwest gradients have been reported for ACS ( Malhi and Wright , 2004 ) , net primary productivity ( Aragão et al . , 2009 ) , wood density ( Baker et al . , 2004 ) , and floristic composition ( ter Steege et al . , 2006 ) . Such gradients coincide with climate and edaphic conditions that range from nearly a seasonal nutrient-limited in the northeast to seasonally dry and nutrient-rich in the southwest ( Quesada et al . , 2012 ) . These regional differences in biotic and abiotic conditions largely constrain demographic processes that ultimately shape forest C balances . Here we partition the contributions to post-disturbance ACS gain ( from growth and recruitment of trees ≥20 cm DBH ) and ACS loss ( from mortality ) of survivors and recruited trees to detect the main drivers and patterns of ACS recovery in forests disturbed by selective logging across Amazonia sensu lato ( that includes the Amazon Basin and the Guiana Shield ) . Based on long-term ( 8–30 year ) inventory data from 13 experimentally-disturbed sites ( Sist et al . , 2015 ) across Amazonia ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1 ) , 133 permanent forest plots ( 175 ha in total ) that cover a large gradient of disturbance intensities ( ACS losses ranging from 1% to 71% ) were used to model the trajectory of those post-disturbance ACS changes ( Figure 1 ) in a comprehensive Bayesian framework . We quantify the effect of pre-disturbance ecosystem characteristics [the site’s average pre-logging ACS ( a⁢c⁢s⁢0 ) and the relative difference between each plot and a⁢c⁢s⁢0 as a proxy of forest maturity ( d⁢a⁢c⁢s ) ] , disturbance intensity [percentage of pre-logging ACS lost ( l⁢o⁢s⁢s ) ] , and interactions with the environment [annual precipitation ( p⁢r⁢e⁢c ) , seasonality of precipitation ( s⁢e⁢a⁢s ) , and soil bulk density ( b⁢d ) ] ( Figure 2 ) on the rates at which post-disturbance ACS changes converge to a theoretical steady state ( as in Figure 1 , see Materials and methods for more details ) . With global maps of ACS ( Avitabile et al . , 2016 ) , climatic conditions ( Hijmans et al . , 2005 ) and soil bulk density ( Nachtergaele et al . , 2008 ) , we up-scale our results to Amazonia ( sensu lato ) and elaborate predictive maps of potential ACS changes over 10 years under the hypothesis of a 40% ACS loss , which is a common disturbance intensity after conventional logging in Amazonia ( Blanc et al . , 2009; Martin et al . , 2015; West et al . , 2014 ) . Summing these ACS changes over time gives the net post-disturbance rate of ACS accumulation . Disentangling ACS recovery into demographic processes and cohorts is essential to reveal mechanisms underlying ACS responses to disturbance and to make more robust predictions of ACS recovery compared to an all-in-one approach ( see Appendix ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 003Figure 1 . Post-disturbance annual ACS changes of survivors and recruits in 133 Amazonian selectively logged plots . Data is available between the year of minimum ACS ( t=0 ) and t=30 years . ACS changes are: recruits’ ACS growth ( orange ) , recruits’ ACS loss ( gold ) , new recruits’ ACS ( red ) , survivors’ ACS growth ( light green ) and survivors’ ACS loss ( dark green ) . Thick solid lines are the maximum-likelihood predictions ( for an average plot , when all covariates are null ) , and dashed lines are the model theoretical behaviour . New recruits’ ACS , recruits’ ACS growth , and recruits’ ACS loss converge over time to constant values . A dynamic equilibrium is then reached: ACS gain from recruitment and recruits’ growth compensate ACS loss from recruits’ mortality . Survivors’ ACS growth and loss . decline over time and tend to zero when all initial survivors have died . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Experimental sites location , each site being composed of permanent forest plots varying in logging intensities , census length ( colour ) and total area ( size ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 005Figure 2 . Effect of covariates on the rate at which post-disturbance ACS changes converge to a theoretical steady state ( in yr-1 ) . Covariates are : disturbance intensity ( l⁢o⁢s⁢s ) , i . e . the proportion of initial ACS loss; mean site’s ACS ( a⁢c⁢s⁢0 ) , and relative forest maturity , i . e . pre-logging plot ACS as a % of a⁢c⁢s⁢0 ( d⁢a⁢c⁢s ) ; annual precipitation ( p⁢r⁢e⁢c ) ; seasonality of precipitation ( s⁢e⁢a⁢s ) , soil bulk density ( b⁢d ) . Covariates are centred and standardized . Red and black levels are 80% and 95% credible intervals , respectively . The median rate is the prediction of the convergence rate for an average plot ( when all covariates are set to zero ) . Negative covariate values indicate slowing and positive values indicate accelerating rates . ( a ) Survivors’ ACS growth . ( b ) New recruits’ ACS . ( c ) Recruits’ ACS growth . ( d ) Survivors’ ACS loss . ( e ) Recruits’ ACS loss . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 00510 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 006Figure 2—source data 1 . Parameters posterior distribution . Columns are the 2 . 5% , 10% , 50% , 90% and 97 . 5% quantiles of the posterior distribution of the model parameters ( rows ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 00610 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 007Figure 2—figure supplement 1 . Fitted vs observed values of cumulative ACS changes ( Mg C ha-1 ) . ( a ) Survivors’ cumulative ACS growth . ( b ) New recruits’ cumulative ACS . ( c ) Recruits’ cumulative ACS growth; ( d ) Survivors’ cumulative ACS loss; ( e ) Recruits’ cumulative ACS loss . The closer the dots are to the x=y line , the better the prediction . Dot transparency is proportional to the observation weight: transparent dots are low-weight observations . Because mortality is a stochastic event , ACS loss has poorer predictions than ACS gain which is a more continuous process . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 21394 . 007 
Neurosphere formation is commonly used as a surrogate for neural stem cell ( NSC ) function but the relationship between neurosphere-initiating cells ( NICs ) and NSCs remains unclear . We prospectively identified , and isolated by flow cytometry , adult mouse lateral ventricle subventricular zone ( SVZ ) NICs as GlastmidEGFRhighPlexinB2highCD24−/lowO4/PSA-NCAM−/lowTer119/CD45− ( GEPCOT ) cells . They were highly mitotic and short-lived in vivo based on fate-mapping with Ascl1CreERT2 and Dlx1CreERT2 . In contrast , pre-GEPCOT cells were quiescent , expressed higher Glast , and lower EGFR and PlexinB2 . Pre-GEPCOT cells could not form neurospheres but expressed the stem cell markers Slc1a3-CreERT , GFAP-CreERT2 , Sox2CreERT2 , and Gli1CreERT2 and were long-lived in vivo . While GEPCOT NICs were ablated by temozolomide , pre-GEPCOT cells survived and repopulated the SVZ . Conditional deletion of the Bmi-1 polycomb protein depleted pre-GEPCOT and GEPCOT cells , though pre-GEPCOT cells were more dependent upon Bmi-1 for Cdkn2a ( p16Ink4a ) repression . Our data distinguish quiescent NSCs from NICs and make it possible to study their properties in vivo .  Neural stem cells ( NSCs ) reside in two regions of the adult mammalian forebrain: the subgranular zone in the dentate gyrus and the subventricular zone in the lateral wall of the lateral ventricle ( SVZ ) . SVZ NSCs persist throughout adult life ( Maslov et al . , 2004; Molofsky et al . , 2006; Imayoshi et al . , 2008 ) , giving rise primarily to neurons in the olfactory bulb as well as some astrocytes in the olfactory bulb ( Lois and Alvarez-Buylla , 1994; Lois et al . , 1996; Doetsch et al . , 1999b; Ahn and Joyner , 2005; Kuo et al . , 2006; Lagace et al . , 2007; Merkle et al . , 2007; Imayoshi et al . , 2008; Chen et al . , 2009 ) and oligodendrocytes in the corpus callosum and cortex ( Nait-Oumesmar et al . , 1999; Menn et al . , 2006 ) . In vivo , these NSCs are quiescent ( Doetsch et al . , 1999a; Pastrana et al . , 2009 ) , resistant to anti-mitotic agents ( Morshead et al . , 1994; Doetsch et al . , 1999b , 2002; Giachino and Taylor , 2009 ) , long-lived ( Ahn and Joyner , 2005; Imayoshi et al . , 2008 ) , and capable of regenerating the SVZ after injury ( Doetsch et al . , 1999b , 2002; López-Juárez et al . , 2013 ) . Clonal colony-forming assays have been widely used to study neural stem/progenitor cells that give rise to neurons , astrocytes , and oligodendrocytes in adherent cultures ( Davis and Temple , 1994 ) and non-adherent neurosphere cultures ( Reynolds and Weiss , 1992 ) . However , in the adult forebrain it remains uncertain whether these colonies are formed by quiescent neural stem cells ( qNSCs ) or by mitotically active and shorter-lived multipotent progenitors ( Morshead et al . , 1994; Doetsch et al . , 2002; Reynolds and Rietze , 2005; Pastrana et al . , 2009 , 2011 ) . Moreover , reliance upon retrospective colony-formation assays makes it impossible to directly study qNSCs or NICs as they exist in vivo . Pioneering work by Alvarez-Buylla and colleagues has demonstrated the existence of a lineage of NSCs and transit amplifying cells in the SVZ that gives rise to neuronal progenitors throughout life ( Lois and Alvarez-Buylla , 1994; Doetsch et al . , 1997 , 1999a; Mirzadeh et al . , 2008; Ihrie and Alvarez-Buylla , 2011 ) . By electron microscopy and immunofluorescence analysis they identified GFAP-expressing type B cells that appear to be the qNSCs . These cells are resistant to anti-mitotic agents such as AraC and appear capable of repopulating the SVZ after AraC treatment ( Doetsch et al . , 1999a , 1999b , 2002 ) . Type B cells are thought to give rise to Ascl1- and Dlx2-expressing type C cells , which are mitotically active and ablated by anti-mitotic agents ( Morshead et al . , 1994; Doetsch et al . , 1999b , 2002; Pastrana et al . , 2009 ) . The type C cells give rise to Dcx- and PSA-NCAM-expressing type A neuronal progenitors . These studies have provided a critical framework for understanding the SVZ neurogenic lineage , though the inability to purify live cells from each stage of this hierarchy has hampered efforts to assess their properties . The inability to prospectively identify and isolate uncultured stem cells from the central nervous system ( CNS ) has contributed to uncertainty regarding the relationship between qNSCs and NICs . SVZ NICs have been enriched by flow cytometry based on CD15 expression ( Capela and Temple , 2002 ) or ROS levels ( Le Belle et al . , 2011 ) . Multiple lines of evidence have demonstrated that NSCs express GFAP and that these cells sustainably contribute to neurogenesis in vivo ( Doetsch et al . , 1997 , 1999a , 1999b , 2002; Imura et al . , 2003; Morshead et al . , 2003; Garcia et al . , 2004; Mirzadeh et al . , 2008; Pastrana et al . , 2009; Beckervordersandforth et al . , 2010; Giachino et al . , 2013 ) . Pastrana et al . identified quiescent GFAP-GFP+EGFR− SVZ cells and speculated that these cells include NSCs that give rise to more mitotically active GFAP-GFP+EGFR+ and GFAP-GFP-EGFR+ NICs but did not test this by fate-mapping ( Pastrana et al . , 2009 ) . In contrast , it has been suggested that nearly all GFAP-GFP+CD133+ cells are NICs and that these cells are the qNSCs in the SVZ ( Beckervordersandforth et al . , 2010 ) . Efforts toward prospective identification have therefore generated conflicting results about whether NICs are quiescent or mitotically active in vivo and regarding their relationship to NSCs . We have identified regulators of CNS stem cell self-renewal based on their ability to regulate SVZ proliferation and neurogenesis in vivo as well as multipotent NIC self-renewal in culture ( Molofsky et al . , 2003 , 2006; Nishino et al . , 2008; Chuikov et al . , 2010 ) . However , an important question that we have not been able to address directly is whether those genes are necessary for NSC maintenance in vivo . Impaired NIC self-renewal in culture may not reflect reduced NSC self-renewal in vivo ( Joseph and Morrison , 2005; He et al . , 2009 ) . For example , the polycomb transcriptional repressor Bmi-1 is thought to be required for NSC self-renewal ( Molofsky et al . , 2003; Bruggeman et al . , 2005; Molofsky et al . , 2005; Zencak et al . , 2005; Bruggeman et al . , 2007; Fasano et al . , 2009 ) . However , these studies were performed in germline knockout mice that generally die within a month after birth ( van der Lugt et al . , 1994; Jacobs et al . , 1999; Lessard and Sauvageau , 2003; Park et al . , 2003 ) . Thus , it has not been possible to test whether Bmi-1 is autonomously required by NSCs in the adult brain or whether NSCs differ from NICs in their dependence upon Bmi-1 . Here we report the prospective identification of two phenotypically and functionally distinct populations of cells in the SVZ: GEPCOT cells and pre-GEPCOT cells . The pre-GEPCOTs accounted for 6 ± 3% of adult mouse SVZ cells , were highly quiescent , lacked the ability to form neurospheres or adherent colonies in culture , and included type B1 cells based on marker expression , morphology , and position in vivo . These cells contained long-lived qNSCs based on both fate mapping and temozolomide resistance . GEPCOTs were distinguished by lower GFAP and Glast expression and higher EGFR and PlexinB2 expression . These cells accounted for 3 . 2 ± 0 . 7% of cells in the adult mouse SVZ , were highly mitotically active , highly enriched for NICs , and included type C cells based on marker expression , morphology , and position in vivo . Based on fate-mapping these cells were short-lived in the SVZ . Our data thus provide methods to prospectively identify and distinguish qNSCs from NICs . 
Piezo1 is a mechanically activated ion channel involved in sensing forces in various cell types and tissues . Cryo-electron microscopy has revealed that the Piezo1 structure is bowl-shaped and capable of inducing membrane curvature via its extended footprint , which indirectly suggests that Piezo1 ion channels may bias each other’s spatial distribution and interact functionally . Here , we use cell-attached patch-clamp electrophysiology and pressure-clamp stimulation to functionally examine large numbers of membrane patches from cells expressing Piezo1 endogenously at low levels and cells overexpressing Piezo1 at high levels . Our data , together with stochastic simulations of Piezo1 spatial distributions , show that both at endogenous densities ( 1–2 channels/μm2 ) , and at non-physiological densities ( 10–100 channels/μm2 ) predicted to cause substantial footprint overlap , Piezo1 density has no effect on its pressure sensitivity or open probability in the nominal absence of membrane tension . The results suggest that Piezo channels , at densities likely to be physiologically relevant , inherently behave as independent mechanotransducers . We propose that this property is essential for cells to transduce forces homogeneously across the entire cell membrane .  Cells are constantly exposed to mechanical forces and have evolved diverse molecular mechanisms that enable force detection . The rapid sensing of mechanical forces that occurs in milliseconds is achieved by force-gated ion channels that convert mechanical energy into electrochemical signals ( Kefauver et al . , 2020 ) . For example , Piezo1 is a mechanically gated cation channel that directly senses membrane tension ( T ) with high sensitivity ( Coste et al . , 2010; Cox et al . , 2016; Lewis and Grandl , 2015; Syeda et al . , 2016 ) . Therefore , theoretically , any mechanical disturbance of the cell membrane may lead to changes in Piezo1 channel open probability ( Po ) . However , the propagation of membrane tension away from its source has been shown to be relatively slow ( D ~ 0 . 024 µm2/s ) , poising Piezo channels with the ability to efficiently and rapidly transduce only mechanical forces that are nearby ( Shi et al . , 2018 ) . The degree to which forces are transduced homogeneously across the cell membrane likely depends not only on the dynamics of membrane tension propagation , but also on ( i ) the spatial distribution of force-gated ion channels , and ( ii ) on their functional independence . Any substantial deviation from a uniform distribution of force-gated ion channels will result in domains that fail to detect forces ( where there are no ion channels ) as well as domains that transduce forces disproportionately ( where many ion channels are nearby ) . Functional interactions and/or cooperativity between force-gated ion channels may further skew transduction efficiency or kinetics in a manner that depends on local channel density , effectively creating a patchwork of blind spots and sensitized areas . Indeed , there is recent experimental evidence suggesting that Piezo1 channels may be non-uniformly distributed . TIRF imaging of Piezo1 channels revealed their free diffusion over the surface of live neural stem/progenitor cells , indirectly suggesting channels are not tethered to other static structures and that random membrane distribution may be possible . However , in the same cells , Piezo1-related activity was spatially enriched , which could arise from non-uniform distribution of Piezo1 channels , variable membrane tension , or both ( Ellefsen et al . , 2019 ) . STORM imaging of HEK293 cells stably expressing GFP-tagged Piezo1 also suggested a non-homogenous spatial distribution , but at channel densities that are likely not physiological ( Ridone et al . , 2020 ) . Additional studies have proposed the existence of clusters with varying numbers of channels ( Jiang et al . , 2021 ) , and that Piezo1 may be concentrated at focal adhesions ( Mingxi Yao et al . , 2020 ) and at wound edges in keratinocytes ( Holt et al . , 2021 ) . A compelling theoretical framework predicting spatial and functional interactions between nearby Piezo channels has been constructed based on cryo-electron microscopy structures of Piezo1 , which revealed its large and extremely curved dome-shaped structure ( Guo and MacKinnon , 2017; Haselwandter and MacKinnon , 2018; Saotome et al . , 2018 ) . Theoretical calculations based on these structures suggest that Piezo1 can both sense and curve the proximal membrane with a characteristic decay length extending ~14 nm beyond the channel . The energetic cost of this membrane curvature implies that Piezo1 channels that are within ~3 decay lengths ( a ‘footprint’ of ~50 nm; see Materials and methods ) may influence each other via multiple mechanisms: opposing curvature may cause nearby Piezo1 channels to repel each other , as well as influence each other’s gating properties ( Haselwandter and MacKinnon , 2018 ) . Indeed , imaging of vesicles containing reconstituted Piezo1 has demonstrated the ability of Piezo1 to curve the membrane locally and suggested that flattening of the channel dome may directly couple to channel opening , but the precise effects of membrane energetics on gating have yet to be explored experimentally ( Jiang et al . , 2021; Lin et al . , 2019 ) . Here , we set out to quantify the spatial distribution and potential functional interactions of Piezo1 ion channels across multiple orders of channel densities . Specifically , we use electrophysiology and large numbers of independent measurements to simultaneously quantify channel number and function , including single-channel current , open probability , and pressure sensitivity . Collectively , our electrophysiological data , together with stochastic simulations show that Piezo1 ion channels , at densities likely to be physiologically relevant , inherently function as independent mechanotransducers . We propose that this property enables cells to transduce forces with high spatial homogeneity across the entire cell membrane . 
Many decisions are thought to arise via the accumulation of noisy evidence to a threshold or bound . In perception , the mechanism explains the effect of stimulus strength , characterized by signal-to-noise ratio , on decision speed , accuracy and confidence . It also makes intriguing predictions about the noise itself . An increase in noise should lead to faster decisions , reduced accuracy and , paradoxically , higher confidence . To test these predictions , we introduce a novel sensory manipulation that mimics the addition of unbiased noise to motion-selective regions of visual cortex , which we verified with neuronal recordings from macaque areas MT/MST . For both humans and monkeys , increasing the noise induced faster decisions and greater confidence over a range of stimuli for which accuracy was minimally impaired . The magnitude of the effects was in agreement with predictions of a bounded evidence accumulation model .  Decisions that combine information from different sources or across time are of special interest to neuroscience because they serve as a model of cognitive function . These decisions are not hard wired or reflexive , yet they are experimentally tractable . Psychologists have long sought to understand how the process of decision formation gives rise to three key observables ( Cartwright and Festinger , 1943; Audley , 1960; Vickers , 1979 ) . First there is the choice itself ( left or right , coffee or tea ) , which determines accuracy in cases where a correct alternative can be defined . Second , there is the time it takes to reach a decision , which determines reaction-time ( RT ) . RT furnishes a powerful constraint on models of decision-making , and is a defining element of the trade-off between speed and accuracy that characterizes most decisions . Third , decisions are often accompanied by a graded degree of belief in the accuracy or appropriateness of the choice . This belief , referred to as decision confidence , influences many aspects of behavior: how we learn from our mistakes , plan subsequent decisions , and communicate our decisions to others . A model of the decision process ought to explain not just choices but all three of these observables in a quantitative fashion . The family of bounded evidence accumulation models , including drift diffusion , race and attractor models , offers one such framework for linking choice , reaction time and confidence [for reviews , see Gold and Shadlen ( 2007 ) ; Shadlen and Kiani ( 2013 ) ] . These models depict the decision process as a race between competing accumulators , each of which integrates momentary evidence for one alternative and against the others . The decision terminates when the accumulated evidence for one alternative , termed a decision variable ( DV ) , reaches a threshold or bound , thereby determining both the choice and the decision time . Confidence in the decision derives from a mapping between the DV and the probability that a decision based on this DV will be correct . The mapping is thought to incorporate the decision time or the state of the competing ( losing ) accumulator ( s ) , or both ( Vickers , 1979; Kiani and Shadlen , 2009; Zylberberg et al . , 2012; Kiani et al . , 2014; Van den Berg et al . , 2016 ) . The noisiness of the momentary evidence causes the DV to wander from its starting point , as in Brownian motion or diffusion , whereas the expectation ( i . e . , mean ) of the momentary evidence increments or decrements the DV deterministically . Noise is the main determinant of both RT and confidence when signal-to-noise is low , that is when choices are more stochastic ( less accurate ) . Recent evidence from neurophysiology ( Kiani and Shadlen , 2009 ) , brain stimulation ( Fetsch et al . , 2014 ) , and psychophysics ( Kiani et al . , 2014 ) supports such a mechanism . If the bounded accumulation of noisy evidence underlies choice accuracy , RT and confidence , then a selective manipulation of the noise should produce quantitatively consistent effects on all three measures . Specifically , were it possible to leave unchanged the expectation of each sample of momentary evidence while boosting the noise associated with it , then the bounded accumulation of the noisier samples should lead to ( i ) lower accuracy when the expectation of the momentary evidence is strong , ( ii ) faster reaction times when the momentary evidence is weak , and ( iii ) increased confidence when the momentary evidence is weak . The basic insight behind the latter two predictions is that with greater volatility , the DV tends to diffuse more quickly away from the starting point to achieve levels nearer the termination bound which are ordinarily associated with stronger evidence and thus greater confidence ( Figure 1 ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 17688 . 003Figure 1 . Predicted influence of volatility on reaction time and confidence under bounded evidence accumulation . ( A ) ev1 ( t ) and ev2 ( t ) represent the time course of momentary evidence , for stimuli of low and high volatility , respectively . In bounded accumulation models , momentary evidence is integrated over time , until the accumulated evidence ( decision variable , DV ) crosses one of two bounds , here at ± B . Bound-crossing simultaneously resolves the choice that is made and the time it takes to make it ( decision time; the reaction time also includes a nondecision component , not shown ) . With greater noise , the decision variable tends to diffuse more rapidly , leading to faster responses . ( B ) Illustration of the effect of volatility on the distribution of decision times , for two bounded accumulation models that have the same drifts and bound heights but different diffusion coefficients . As in the single trial example , higher variance leads to faster responses . ( C ) Heat map depicting the association between the state of accumulated evidence and the probability that a decision rendered on this evidence is correct . The structure in this graph arises because there are several difficulty levels . More reliable stimuli ( e . g . , high motion coherence ) , which support high accuracy , contribute to large vertical excursions of the decision variable away from the starting point ( midpoint of the ordinate ) at short elapsed time , whereas less reliable stimuli contribute to equivalent vertical excursions at later times . Example probability contours are depicted with dashed lines . Because the volatility of the stimulus is not explicitly represented in this map , higher volatility would lead to greater confidence , because the decision variable diffuses more quickly from the starting point , leading paradoxically to states that are normally associated with more reliable sources . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 17688 . 003 These predictions have not been tested thoroughly , because a controlled method for selectively increasing noise is not known . A dissociation between accuracy and confidence led Rahnev et al . ( 2012 ) to conclude that transcranial magnetic stimulation ( TMS ) increased the neural noise associated with the representation of a visual pattern , and a similar dissociation led Fetsch et al . ( 2014 ) to conclude that cortical microstimulation ( µStim ) might affect both the mean and the variance of the representation of motion by neurons in the extrastriate visual cortex ( areas MT/MST ) . However , characterization of these effects of TMS and µStim was inferred from behavior . Similarly , psychophysical studies that attempted to increase the noise through changes in the visual stimulus ( de Gardelle and Summerfield , 2011; Zylberberg et al . , 2014; de Gardelle and Mamassian , 2015 ) or attentional state ( Rahnev et al . , 2011; Morales et al . , 2015 ) did not characterize the influence of these manipulations on the neural signals that the brain accumulates to form a decision . We therefore sought a method to manipulate the variance associated with the neural representation of momentary evidence without affecting its mean . We achieved this with a manipulation of the motion information in a random dot motion ( RDM ) display , by adding a second level of randomness which increased its volatility but was unbiased with respect to the strength and direction of motion evidence . We verified that the manipulation has the desired properties by recording from direction selective neurons in the middle temporal ( MT ) and medial superior temporal ( MST ) areas of the macaque visual cortex . Neurons in these areas are known to represent the momentary evidence in tasks identical to those in our study ( Salzman et al . , 1990; Celebrini and Newsome , 1995; Ditterich et al . , 2003; Fetsch et al . , 2014 ) . We then used the volatility manipulation to test the influence of noise on the three observables of choice behavior—accuracy , RT and confidence—in monkeys and humans . 
The insulin-like signaling pathway maintains a relatively short wild-type lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans by phosphorylating and inactivating DAF-16 , the ortholog of the FOXO transcription factors of mammalian cells . DAF-16 is phosphorylated by the AKT kinases , preventing its nuclear translocation . Calcineurin ( PP2B phosphatase ) also limits the lifespan of C . elegans , but the mechanism through which it does so is unknown . Herein , we show that TAX-6•CNB-1 and UNC-43 , the C . elegans Calcineurin and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent kinase type II ( CAMKII ) orthologs , respectively , also regulate lifespan through DAF-16 . Moreover , UNC-43 regulates DAF-16 in response to various stress conditions , including starvation , heat or oxidative stress , and cooperatively contributes to lifespan regulation by insulin signaling . However , unlike insulin signaling , UNC-43 phosphorylates and activates DAF-16 , thus promoting its nuclear localization . The phosphorylation of DAF-16 at S286 by UNC-43 is removed by TAX-6•CNB-1 , leading to DAF-16 inactivation . Mammalian FOXO3 is also regulated by CAMKIIA and Calcineurin .  Multiple signaling pathways , including insulin/IGF-1 signaling ( IIS ) , germline signaling , mitochondrial signaling , and the signaling pathways induced by dietary restriction , regulate aging in C . elegans ( Kenyon , 2005; Greer and Brunet , 2008 ) . The best characterized is the IIS pathway , which includes the upstream insulin/IGF-1 receptor DAF-2 and the downstream FOXO transcription factor DAF-16 . Signals from DAF-2 are transmitted through AGE-1 ( phosphoinositide 3-kinase ) and PDK-1 ( phosphoinositol-dependent kinase-1 ) to AKT-1 , AKT-2 , and SGK-1 , which phosphorylate DAF-16 and prevent it from translocating to the nucleus to activate a pro-longevity gene network . Reduction-of-function mutations of the kinase genes in the IIS pathway , from daf-2 to akt-1 , akt-2 , and sgk-1 , all extend lifespan in a daf-16-dependent manner ( Kenyon et al . , 1993; Morris et al . , 1996; Kimura et al . , 1997; Hertweck et al . , 2004 ) . Lifespan extension by reduced IIS is also observed in other species , including flies and mice , indicating that the pathway is conserved evolutionarily ( Kenyon , 2005; Greer and Brunet , 2008 ) . Compared with the kinases in the C . elegans IIS pathway , little is known about the protein phosphatases that neutralize the effects of the kinases . The only known example is PPTR-1 , a B56 regulatory subunit of PP2A , which directs PP2A to dephosphorylate AKT-1 at T350 , thereby inactivating the kinase ( Padmanabhan et al . , 2009 ) . DAF-18 , the C . elegans PTEN , is a phosphatidylinositol 3 , 4 , 5-trisphosphate ( PIP3 ) 3-phosphatase ( Ogg and Ruvkun , 1998 ) . The phosphatase for DAF-2 has not been identified , nor the one that regulates DAF-16 . Previously , loss-of-function ( lf ) mutants for tax-6 and cnb-1 , which encode the catalytic and regulatory subunits of C . elegans Calcineurin , respectively , were found to live longer than wild-type ( WT ) worms ( Dong et al . , 2007 ) . In mammalian systems , Calcineurin ( PP2B ) is a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent serine/threonine protein phosphatase that has diverse functions and affects both T cell activation and heart development ( Crabtree , 1999 ) . In C . elegans , Calcineurin regulates body size , thermotaxis , muscle contraction , and lifespan ( Bandyopadhyay et al . , 2002; Kuhara et al . , 2002; Lee et al . , 2004; Dong et al . , 2007 ) . The longevity phenotype of tax-6 ( lf ) is partially dependent on daf-16 ( Dong et al . , 2007 ) . More recent studies have shown that C . elegans Calcineurin can regulate lifespan by suppressing autophagy ( Dwivedi et al . , 2009 ) or inactivating CRTC-1 , a co-activator of CREB ( Mair et al . , 2011 ) . However , direct targets of worm Calcineurin have not been identified . In the current work , we addressed how worm Calcineurin TAX-6•CNB-1 regulates lifespan . We discovered that DAF-16 was phosphorylated and activated by UNC-43 at the serine 286 ( S286 ) site . The phosphoryl group was removed by TAX-6•CNB-1 . UNC-43 and TAX-6•CNB-1 therefore regulate C . elegans lifespan through the reversible phosphorylation of DAF-16 . This regulatory mechanism has a different mode of action from the canonical IIS pathway because the phosphorylation activates , rather than represses , DAF-16 . Activation of DAF-16 by UNC-43 occurs in response to different types of stress signals , such as heat , starvation , and oxidation . UNC-43 and TAX-6•CNB-1 can regulate DAF-16 independently of IIS , and the two signaling mechanisms appear to crosstalk , leading to coordinated action on DAF-16 . We also show that the regulation of FOXO by CAMKII and Calcineurin is conserved in mammalian cells . 
Motor sequences are formed through the serial execution of different movements , but how nervous systems implement this process remains largely unknown . We determined the organizational principles governing how dirty fruit flies groom their bodies with sequential movements . Using genetically targeted activation of neural subsets , we drove distinct motor programs that clean individual body parts . This enabled competition experiments revealing that the motor programs are organized into a suppression hierarchy; motor programs that occur first suppress those that occur later . Cleaning one body part reduces the sensory drive to its motor program , which relieves suppression of the next movement , allowing the grooming sequence to progress down the hierarchy . A model featuring independently evoked cleaning movements activated in parallel , but selected serially through hierarchical suppression , was successful in reproducing the grooming sequence . This provides the first example of an innate motor sequence implemented by the prevailing model for generating human action sequences .  Animals engage in a variety of complex serial behaviors that are essential for survival , such as nest building , communication , courtship , and prey capture . Serial behaviors can be subdivided into distinct motor actions that are mutually exclusive and often proceed in a given sequence ( Gallistel , 1980; Adams , 1984 ) . While our understanding of how motor actions are produced expands ( Marder et al . , 2005; Bizzi and Cheung , 2008; Grillner and Jessell , 2009; Costa , 2011 ) , less is known about the rules that govern how nervous systems assemble individual actions into coordinated sequential behaviors . There are two main hypotheses about mechanisms that drive the sequential progression of actions during serial behavior . One hypothesis suggests that each action in a series triggers performance of the next action ( James , 1890; Adams , 1984 ) . This is one of the earliest views of motor sequencing and is thought to underlie some sequential behaviors , such as bird song ( Long et al . , 2010 ) . An alternative hypothesis proposes that the premotor units of all actions in a sequence are activated or readied in parallel and then sequentially selected through winner-take-all competition ( Lashley , 1951; Houghton and Hartley , 1995; Bullock , 2004 ) . This model was originally proposed based on human psychology experiments demonstrating a parallel representation of letter typing acts prior to the typing of a word . Electrophysiological evidence in primates is consistent with this parallel model of serial behavior ( Averbeck et al . , 2002; Mushiake et al . , 2006 ) . However , it has been difficult to causatively confirm the model and determine its underlying action selection mechanisms . One strategy for testing how serial behavior is executed is to first identify the individual motor actions that make up the behavior and to then use neural control over each action to investigate how its manipulation affects the progression of the other actions in the series . Independent control of each action in a sequence is challenging to achieve in most systems . However , recent tool development in Drosophila melanogaster permits subdivisions of behavior to be identified and manipulated in freely moving flies by expressing neural activators in subsets of neurons in the brain . This approach has revealed that acute neural activation can trigger specific behaviors and subcomponents of behaviors , such as abdominal bending and courtship song ( two subcomponents of the courtship sequence ) ( Clyne and Miesenböck , 2008; von Philipsborn et al . , 2011; Flood et al . , 2013 ) . While these tools have invigorated interest in identifying the neurons that drive behavior , they also enable experiments to probe the organization of serial behavior through specific control of individual motor actions . Here , we study the organizational principles underlying the neural control of serial action selection in an innate behavior common to most limbed animals—grooming ( Sachs , 1988 ) . Grooming consists of discrete cleaning movements that occur in predictable sequences; however , the mechanisms that govern transitions between the movements are not known ( Szebenyi , 1969; Fentress and Stilwell , 1973; Dawkins and Dawkins , 1976; Sachs , 1988 ) . Local mechanical stimulation of a body part causes fruit flies to perform precisely targeted cleaning sweeps with their front or hind legs towards that body part ( Vandervorst and Ghysen , 1980; Corfas and Dudai , 1989 ) . In contrast , when they are completely coated in dust , flies coordinate a repertoire of cleaning movements to groom their whole bodies ( Figure 1A; Bentley , 1975; Phillis et al . , 1993 ) . We reasoned that we could exploit the behavior of such dust-coated flies to determine how different grooming actions are prioritized and ordered when they are stimulated at the same time . We show that dust on the body elicits different independently evoked cleaning motor programs for five body parts that progress in series . By genetically targeting different neural subsets , we gain experimental control over each cleaning motor program to demonstrate that they are organized into a suppression hierarchy . We next generate an empirically derived computational model that demonstrates how a suppression hierarchy can mediate the sequential selection of the cleaning motor programs . This work reveals how the organization of Drosophila grooming is well described by a parallel model of serial behavior . 10 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 003Figure 1 . Wild-type flies clean different areas of the body sequentially . ( A ) Diagram of body parts cleaned by front leg ( red hues ) or hind leg ( green hues ) movements . ( B–D ) Dust distribution measurements of the bodies of flies that were coated in yellow dust and allowed to groom . ( B ) Body parts were imaged ( dusted samples ) and aligned to clean reference images in order to determine the fraction of dust left on each part . ( C ) Average spatial distribution of dust 0 min after dusting and after flies groomed for 35 min . The number of flies contributing to each heat map is displayed . ( D ) Dust removal across a 35-min time course . Masks define regions for counting the yellow pixels ( dust ) remaining on each sample . Each time point ( normalized to 0-min samples ) is plotted as the fraction of dust left in the defined regions and shown as the mean ± SEM; n ≥ 26 flies . Figure panel is compiled from data shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 3 . ( E ) Representative ethogram of the five most common cleaning movements performed by an individual fly after dusting ( manually scored from video recordings ) . All head cleaning movements are binned because eye and antennal cleaning are not easily distinguishable in the dusted state using our analysis methods ( labeled whole head ) . ( F ) Latency to the first bout of head , abdomen , or wing cleaning after dusting for each of six flies annotated . ( G ) Transitions among different body cleaning movements , standing , and walking ( across a 25-min time course , n = 6 flies ) . The radii of the nodes are proportional to the log of the average fraction of total cleaning bouts for each movement . Average total bouts for each movement are shown . Arrow widths represent the transition probabilities between the movements ( displaying transition probabilities ≥0 . 05 ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Grooming apparatus for dusting , recording , and observing flies . ( A ) Mesh-covered chambers allow free dust to exit while preventing flies from escaping . Connector side shown with some wells closed using slider gates . ( B ) Sliders gate the chambers for transferring flies and preventing escape . ( C ) View of a single grooming chamber with the gate partially open . ( D ) The connector side fits standard multiwell plates for fly dusting ( not shown ) , clear viewing plugs for recording videos ( D ) , and an adaptor for transferring flies between chambers ( not shown ) . ( D ) Image from a video recording of a dusted fly used to score cleaning movements . ( E and F ) Shows the aluminum version of the apparatus for rapid cooling of flies . This version was used for the experiment shown in Figure 3C . All displayed grooming chambers are 15 . 6 mm in diameter . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 005Figure 1—figure supplement 2 . Strategies for quantifying dust on the body surface . ( A ) Examples of dusted flies that were allowed to groom for 1 min before their heads were dissected and imaged ( showing 6 of 31 total images for this time point ) . ( B ) Each image was manually warped to a standard head ( shown in Figure 1B ) , the dust-positive yellow pixels were isolated and converted to grayscale , and all dust pixels were set to 255 intensity values ( 8 bit ) . The numbers of white pixels in each image were counted in different regions specified by masks shown in Figure 1D . ( C ) Average projections were generated from the stack of 31 images . ( D ) A grayscale color map was produced using the average projection intensity values . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 00510 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 006Figure 1—figure supplement 3 . Wild-type flies remove dust from body parts at different rates . Data shown here is compiled and plotted in Figure 1D . ( A ) Average dust patterns of the body parts of Canton S flies at different time points after dusting . Masks used for defining regions of the body parts for counting dust pixels are shown on top . ( B ) Distribution plots of quantified dust pattern data . Each point on the plots represents the number of yellow pixels from the body part sample images . The mean is shown as a red line , 1 . 96 SEN ( 95% confidence interval ) is in red , 1 SD is blue . ( C ) Curve fit summary of each body part . Curves were fit to either sigmoidal or exponential equations . Values represent the time it took for flies to clean fifty percent of each body part . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 00610 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 007Figure 1—figure supplement 4 . Sequential cleaning of the head , abdomen , and wings requires dust . ( A and B ) Cleaning movement ethograms of individual Canton S flies in response to being shaken without ( A ) and with ( B ) dust ( n = 6 flies for each condition ) . ( C ) Table of the time to the first appearance of different cleaning movements for both undusted and dusted flies . Head cleaning movements are all binned because of the difficulty distinguishing between eye and antennal cleaning when flies were dusted ( labeled whole head ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 00710 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 008Figure 1—figure supplement 5 . Transitions among cleaning movements of dusted wild-type flies . Canton S flies were shaken with dust . ( A and B ) The number of first order transitions between movements ( A ) and the transition probabilities are shown ( B ) . Data were collected from 25 min of manually scored video ( n = 6 flies for each treatment ) . Movements were binned into whole head , abdomen , wing , and leg rubbing . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 00810 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 009Figure 1—figure supplement 6 . Transitions among cleaning movements performed by dusted wild-type flies over a time course . Diagrams are generated from manually scored video in 5-min bins , over a 25-min time course ( n = 6 flies ) . The radii of the nodes are proportional to the log of the average fraction of total cleaning bouts for each movement per time bin . Average total bouts for each movement are shown . Arrow widths represent the transition probabilities between the movements ( displaying transition probabilities ≥0 . 05 ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 02951 . 009 
Accurate chromosome segregation depends on coordination between cohesion resolution and kinetochore-microtubule interactions ( K-fibers ) , a process regulated by the spindle assembly checkpoint ( SAC ) . How these diverse processes are coordinated remains unclear . We show that in mammalian oocytes Shugoshin-like protein 2 ( Sgol2 ) in addition to protecting cohesin , plays an important role in turning off the SAC , in promoting the congression and bi-orientation of bivalents on meiosis I spindles , in facilitating formation of K-fibers and in limiting bivalent stretching . Sgol2’s ability to protect cohesin depends on its interaction with PP2A , as is its ability to silence the SAC , with the latter being mediated by direct binding to Mad2 . In contrast , its effect on bivalent stretching and K-fiber formation is independent of PP2A and mediated by recruitment of MCAK and inhibition of Aurora C kinase activity respectively . By virtue of its multiple interactions , Sgol2 links many of the processes essential for faithful chromosome segregation .  The production of haploid gametes from diploid germ cells depends on two rounds of chromosome segregation ( meiosis I and II ) without an intervening round of DNA replication . Defects during the first or second meiotic division in oocytes lead to formation of aneuploid eggs , which in humans occurs with a frequency between 10 and 30% and is a major cause of fetal miscarriages ( Hassold and Hunt , 2001 ) . Understanding the causes of meiotic chromosome missegregation will require clarifying not only the forces and regulatory mechanisms governing meiotic chromosome segregation but also how these are coordinated . At the heart of this process are two opposing forces . The pulling forces produced by kinetochore-microtubules attachments ( K-fibers ) and resisting forces generated by sister chromatid cohesion , which counteracts K-fiber forces if and when kinetochores attach to microtubules with different polarities . During meiosis I , cohesion along chromosome arms holds bivalent chromosomes together following the creation of chiasmata produced by reciprocal recombination between homologous non-sister chromatids . This cohesion must persist during the attachment of maternal and paternal kinetochores to microtubules from opposite poles ( bi-orientation ) and resist the resulting spindle forces . The degree of traction exerted by meiotic spindles must create sufficient tension to facilitate bi-orientation ( Tachibana-Konwalski et al . , 2010 ) . During the bi-orientation process , the initial attachment of kinetochores to the surface of the microtubule lattice ( lateral attachment ) is converted to attachments to their plus ends ( end on attachment ) , creating K-fibers . Because this process is intrinsically error prone , inappropriate attachments , for example those that connect maternal and paternal kinetochores to the same pole , must be disrupted through phosphorylation of kinetochore proteins by Aurora B/C kinases ( Kitajima et al . , 2011 ) . However , because these kinases disrupt K-fibers , they must subsequently be down regulated once bivalents bi-orient correctly . The first meiotic division is eventually triggered by activation of a gigantic ubiquitin protein ligase called the anaphase-promoting complex or cyclosome ( APC/C ) whose destruction of securin and cyclin B activates a thiol protease called separase that cleaves the kleisin subunit of the cohesin complex holding sister chromatids together ( McGuinness et al . , 2005; Kudo et al . , 2006 ) . This process converts chromosomes from bivalents to dyads . It is delayed until all bivalents have bi-oriented by the production , at kinetochores that have not yet come under tension , of a potent inhibitor of the APC/C called the mitotic checkpoint complex ( MCC ) whose Mad2 subunit binds tightly to the APC/C’s Cdc20 co-activator protein . This regulatory mechanism , called the spindle assembly checkpoint ( SAC ) , must be turned off before APC/CCdc20 can direct destruction of securin and cyclin B and thereby activate separase . Another pre-condition for cleavage , at least in yeast , is phosphorylation of cohesin’s kleisin subunit by a pair of protein kinases , namely CK1δ/ε and DDK ( Ishiguro et al . , 2010; Katis et al . , 2010 ) . During the first meiotic division , cohesin is phosphorylated along chromosome arms but not at centromeres , which ensures that only cohesion along arms is destroyed by separase at the onset of anaphase I . The consequent persistence of cohesion at centromeres promotes bi-orientation of dyads during meiosis II . Centromeric cohesin avoids phosphorylation and therefore cleavage during the first meiotic division because separase activation is preceded by the recruitment to centromeres of orthologues of the Drosophila MEI-S332 protein , called shugoshins . Members of this family contain a conserved C-terminal basic region and an N-terminal homodimeric parallel coiled coil , which provides a docking site for protein phosphatase 2A’s ( PP2A ) C and B’ subunits ( Xu et al . , 2009 ) . In budding yeast , mutant proteins defective specifically in PP2A binding fail to confer protection of centromeric cohesion during meiosis I ( Xu et al . , 2009 ) . Mammals have two members of the shugoshin family: Shugoshin-like protein 1 ( Sgol1 ) , and Shugoshin-like protein 2 ( Sgol2 ) . The former prevents centromeric cohesin from a process called the ‘prophase pathway’ that removes cohesin from chromosomes by a non-proteolytic mechanism soon after cells enter mitosis ( McGuinness et al . , 2005; Liu et al . , 2013 ) . Sgol2 , on the other hand , protects centromeric cohesin from separase at the first meiotic division ( Lee et al . , 2008; Llano et al . , 2008 ) . Sgol2’s coiled coil domain binds PP2A in vitro ( Xu et al . , 2009 ) but whether this is vital for protecting centromeric cohesion is not known . Sgol2 also interacts with MCAK ( Huang et al . , 2007 ) , a microtubule depolymerizing kinesin , implicated in correcting inappropriate kinetochore-microtubule interactions ( error correction ) , and with Mad2 an essential component of the MCC ( Orth et al . , 2011 ) . Shugoshins , though not explicitly Sgol2 , have also been implicated in recruiting to kinetochores the Aurora B kinase , necessary both for the SAC and for error correction ( Tsukahara et al . , 2010; Yamagishi et al . , 2010 ) . Based on its interactions , Sgol2 has been linked to cohesion protection , the spindle assembly checkpoint , and error correction pathways . However , the physiological significance of these multiple interactions remain unclear . We show here that Sgol2 defective in PP2A binding fails to protect centromeric cohesin , as found for Sgo1 in yeast ( Xu et al . , 2009 ) . However , if this were the sole function of Sgol2 , then chromosome behavior during meiosis I should be unaffected . To our surprise , we found that Sgol2 deficiency caused striking changes in chromosome and microtubule dynamics . It delayed bi-orientation of bivalents on meiosis I spindles , caused increased bivalent stretching , and greatly increased Aurora B/C kinase activity at kinetochores , which was accompanied by an increase in lateral and a decrease in end on kinetochore-microtubules attachments . Lastly , Sgol2 deficiency delayed considerably APC/CCdc20 activation , suggesting that it was required to shut off the SAC . Sgol2 helps to turn off the SAC by binding directly both PP2A and the MCC protein Mad2 , it moderates chromosome stretching by recruiting to kinetochores the kinesin MCAK , and likely promotes formation of K-fibers by down-regulating the activity of Aurora B/C kinase specifically at kinetochores . Meiotic chromosome segregation is a highly complex process dependent on an array of different biochemical processes . Our findings imply that through its multi-domain structure , Sgol2 has an important if not unique role in coordinating many of the key processes within this array . 
The persistence of experience-dependent changes in brain connectivity requires RNA localization and protein synthesis . Previous studies have demonstrated a role for local translation in altering the structure and function of synapses during synapse formation and experience-dependent synaptic plasticity . In this study , we ask whether in addition to promoting local translation , local stimulation also triggers directed trafficking of RNAs from nucleus to stimulated synapses . Imaging of RNA localization and translation in cultured Aplysia sensory-motor neurons revealed that RNAs were delivered throughout the arbor of the sensory neuron , but that translation was enriched only at sites of synaptic contact and/or synaptic stimulation . Investigation of the mechanisms that trigger local translation revealed a role for calcium-dependent retrograde netrin-1/DCC receptor signaling . Spatially restricting gene expression by regulating local translation rather than by directing the delivery of mRNAs from nucleus to stimulated synapses maximizes the readiness of the entire neuronal arbor to respond to local cues .  Synapse formation and long-lasting experience-dependent synaptic plasticity require new RNA and protein synthesis ( Kandel , 2001; Kalinovsky and Scheiffele , 2004 ) . Neurons are dramatically polarized and compartmentalized cells , elaborating axonal and dendritic processes that extend long distances and forming thousands of synaptic connections with other neurons . This polarity and compartmentalization poses challenges to the spatial regulation of gene expression during synapse formation and synaptic plasticity: how can the products of gene expression be restricted to specific synapses undergoing activity-dependent changes in structure and function ? Many studies have demonstrated that mRNAs that constitutively localize to axonal growth cones in immature neurons and to dendrites in mature neurons undergo stimulus-induced translation , demonstrating that regulated translation of localized mRNAs provides one mechanism of spatially restricting neuronal gene expression ( Aakalu et al . , 2001; Job and Eberwine , 2001; Leung et al . , 2006; Lyles et al . , 2006; Smith et al . , 2005; Tsokas et al . , 2005; Wang et al . , 2009; Zheng et al . , 2001 ) . Here , we set out to determine whether , in addition to regulating compartmentalized translation , local stimulation also regulates RNA trafficking from the soma to the synapse . We considered that the regulated trafficking of stimulus-induced transcripts from nucleus to stimulated synapse would provide a means of directly coupling the requirement for transcription with the requirement for local translation during synapse formation and plasticity . A number of findings indicate that the persistence of long-term plasticity requires not only translation but also transcription . For example , transcriptional inhibitors block late-phase LTP of rodent hippocampal synapses ( Frey et al . , 1996; Nguyen et al . , 1994 ) and long-term facilitation ( LTF ) of Aplysia sensory-motor synapses ( Montarolo et al . , 1986 ) , indicating that translation of pre-existing localized mRNAs is not sufficient for late-LTP in hippocampus or for the persistence of LTF in Aplysia . Similarly , when isolated Aplysia sensory neurites , severed from their somata , are paired with motor neurons , they undergo a form of serotonin ( 5HT ) -induced LTF that does not last as long as the LTF in cultures containing intact SNs ( Grabham et al . , 2005 ) . Together these studies demonstrate that newly transcribed mRNAs are required for persistent synaptic plasticity . This led us to ask whether , in addition to regulating local translation , synaptic stimulation regulates the trafficking of RNAs from the nucleus to specific subcellular sites . Consistent with the possibility of stimulus-induced control of RNA trafficking , previous studies have reported that activity can regulate the localization of mRNAs within neurons . For example , depolarization has been shown to increase the dendritic localization of several mRNAs , including those encoding beta-actin ( Tiruchinapalli et al . , 2003 ) , BDNF , and TrkB ( Tongiorgi et al . , 1997 ) , while incubation with DHPG has been shown to increase the dendritic localization of the AMPA glutamate receptor GluA2 ( Grooms et al . , 2006 ) . Similarly , neurotrophins have been reported to regulate the concentration of specific mRNAs in axons of regenerating adult sensory neurons ( Willis et al . , 2007 ) . Neuronal activity also induces transcription of genes whose transcripts are subsequently transported into dendrites , including for example the immediate early gene Arc ( Link et al . , 1995; Lyford et al . , 1995 ) . In situ hybridization images of the bclw transcript in a recent study from Cosker et al ( 2013 ) indicated that the mRNA localized to peripheral but not central axons of DRG neurons , suggesting that neurons are capable of directing transcripts from the soma to subsets of processes . Together , these findings suggest that RNAs may undergo activity-dependent transport from the nucleus to locally stimulated subcellular compartments . In this study , we directly monitored RNA targeting from the soma to stimulated synapses during synapse formation and synaptic plasticity . To examine synapse formation , we cultured a single bifurcated Aplysia SN with a target ( L7 ) MN , with which it formed glutamatergic synapses , and a non-target ( L11 ) MN , with which it fasciculated but did not form chemical synapses ( Glanzman et al . , 1990 ) . To study RNA localization during synapse-specific plasticity , we cultured bifurcated SNs with two target MNs and locally perfused 5HT onto the connection with one MN to produce synapse-specific LTF . We asked whether and how stimuli regulate RNA and protein localization and concentration by analyzing the distribution of ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) , messenger RNA ( mRNA ) , RNA binding proteins , and translation factors . We found that rRNA , three specific mRNAs , ribosomal proteins , and translation factors were delivered throughout the SN , to both synaptic and non-synaptic sites , but that translation was significantly enriched at sites of synaptic contact and at sites of synaptic stimulation . These results indicate that the spatial regulation of gene expression in Aplysia sensory-motor neurons is mediated primarily at the level of translation rather than at the level of RNA targeting from the nucleus . These results , together with our previous study ( Wang et al . , 2009 ) suggested the existence of a trans-synaptic signal that promotes translation of localized mRNAs . In investigating the nature of such a trans-synaptic signal , we uncovered a role for netrin-1/DCC signaling in local translation at synapses . Our findings are thus consistent with neurons delivering transcripts and translational machinery throughout the neuron , but with a synaptically restricted netrin-1-dependent signal triggering localized translation at synapses . 
Morphogenesis involves interactions of asymmetric cell populations to form complex multicellular patterns and structures comprised of distinct cell types . However , current methods to model morphogenic events lack control over cell-type co-emergence and offer little capability to selectively perturb specific cell subpopulations . Our in vitro system interrogates cell-cell interactions and multicellular organization within human induced pluripotent stem cell ( hiPSC ) colonies . We examined effects of induced mosaic knockdown of molecular regulators of cortical tension ( ROCK1 ) and cell-cell adhesion ( CDH1 ) with CRISPR interference . Mosaic knockdown of ROCK1 or CDH1 resulted in differential patterning within hiPSC colonies due to cellular self-organization , while retaining an epithelial pluripotent phenotype . Knockdown induction stimulates a transient wave of differential gene expression within the mixed populations that stabilized in coordination with observed self-organization . Mosaic patterning enables genetic interrogation of emergent multicellular properties , which can facilitate better understanding of the molecular pathways that regulate symmetry-breaking during morphogenesis .  Early morphogenic tissue development requires the robust coordination of biochemical and biophysical signaling cues to dictate cell-cell communication , multicellular organization , and cell fate determination . ( Burdsal et al . , 1993; Leckband et al . , 2011; Montero and Heisenberg , 2004 ) . A hallmark of morphogenesis is the asymmetric co-emergence of distinct cell populations that self-organize to form developmental patterns , multicellular structures , and ultimately , functional tissues and organs ( Bronner , 2016; Lancaster and Knoblich , 2014; Sasai , 2013 ) . For example , during gastrulation , the blastocyst transitions from a relatively homogeneous population of pluripotent cells to a spatially organized , multicellular composition of distinct progenitor cells . Therefore , to study morphogenesis , it is essential to promote the coincident development of analogous heterogeneous populations in vitro . Human pluripotent stem cells ( hPSCs ) provide an unlimited source of cells that can mimic developmental differentiation processes and maintain the ability to self-organize into tissue-like structures , such as optic cups , gut organoids , or stratified cortical tissues ( Eiraku et al . , 2008; Eiraku et al . , 2011; Spence et al . , 2011 ) . However , due to the intrinsic variability of organoids ( Bredenoord et al . , 2017 ) and the lack of alternative human models that faithfully promote asymmetric emergence , many of the mechanisms that control and coordinate morphogenesis remain undefined . Therefore , new approaches to reliably control the emergence and organization of multiple cell types would greatly advance tissue modeling and organ developmental studies . Controlling cellular heterogeneity in vitro is often achieved by independent differentiation of hPSCs followed by re-combination of distinct cell types , which fails to mimic parallel cell-type emergence ( Matthys et al . , 2016 ) . Attempts to engineer in vitro systems that yield controlled emergence of spatial organization often rely on extrinsic physical restriction of cells to direct subsequent multicellular pattern formation ( Hsiao et al . , 2009; Warmflash et al . , 2014 ) . Physical constraints allow the observational study of cell-cell interactions within defined regions , but artificially restrict cell behaviors by limiting the degrees of freedom in which morphogenic phenomena can occur . Additionally , current tools to interrogate gene function , such as genetic knockouts or siRNA ( Boettcher and McManus , 2015 ) , cannot selectively perturb gene expression of subpopulations of cells in situ , which is required to generate controlled asymmetry analogous to embryonic morphogenesis . Several of these limitations can be addressed with inducible CRISPR interference ( CRISPRi ) systems in mammalian cells ( Larson et al . , 2013; Mandegar et al . , 2016 ) . CRISPRi silencing enables temporal regulation over knockdowns ( KD ) of specific genetic targets with limited off-target effects . Temporal KD constraints enable the development of precisely-controlled engineered biological systems that can induce well-defined genetic perturbation at explicit times and within defined populations of cells to mimic developmental symmetry-breaking events . Morphogenic asymmetries arise from reorganization of cells due to local changes in mechanical tissue stiffness and cell adhesions that facilitate physical organization of developing embryos ( Krieg et al . , 2008; Maître et al . , 2012 ) . Mechanical rearrangement is necessary for many aspects of morphogenesis , including cell polarity , collective movement , multicellular organization , and organ size regulation ( Arboleda-Estudillo et al . , 2010; Maître , 2017 ) . Differential adhesion ( Foty and Steinberg , 2004; Foty and Steinberg , 2005 ) and cortical tension ( Van Essen and Essen , 1997; Krieg et al . , 2008 ) are critical determinants of mechanically-driven cell sorting , in which both processes are known to contribute to tissue organization ( Lecuit and Lenne , 2007 ) . In cortical tension-dominated sorting , variable actin cytoskeleton-generated cortex tension stimulates sorting of individual cells , whereas differential adhesion sorting promotes segregation of cell populations due to intercellular homophilic adhesions . Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase ( ROCK1 ) and E-cadherin ( CDH1 ) are interesting orthogonal gene targets to interrogate hPSC population organization by altering the intrinsic mechanics of distinct cell populations . ROCK1 regulates actin-myosin dynamics ( Figure 1A ) , which contribute to a cell’s cortical tension ( Salbreux et al . , 2012 ) . In addition , ROCK inhibition is often used in hPSC culture and has been implicated in pluripotency maintenance ( McBeath et al . , 2004; Ohgushi et al . , 2015 ) . Similarly , CDH1 , a classic type I cadherin adhesion molecule , is widely associated with pluripotency and early morphogenesis ( Heasman et al . , 1994; Przybyla et al . , 2016; Ringwald et al . , 1987 ) , and its down-regulation parallels the induction of patterning events via differential adhesion ( Figure 1A ) . In this study , we explored whether mechanical manipulation of human induced pluripotent stem cells ( hiPSCs ) sub-populations results in controllable cell driven self-organization into repeatable patterns . We employed an inducible CRISPR interference ( CRISPRi ) system in hiPSCs to silence key proteins that regulate cell adhesion and cortical tension . We genetically induced controlled symmetry-breaking events within hiPSC populations by creating mixed populations of hiPSCs with and without the CRISPRi system and then induced mosaic knockdown ( KD ) . Mosaic KD was employed to interrogate how the creation of physical asymmetries in an otherwise homogeneous population leads to multicellular organization and pattern formation . We show that induction of mosaic KD of ROCK1 or CDH1 results in a ‘bottom-up’ cell-driven pattern formation of hiPSC colonies while preserving pluripotency . 
Encoding precision in visual working memory decreases with the number of encoded items . Here , we propose a normative theory for such set size effects: the brain minimizes a weighted sum of an error-based behavioral cost and a neural encoding cost . We construct a model from this theory and find that it predicts set size effects . Notably , these effects are mediated by probing probability , which aligns with previous empirical findings . The model accounts well for effects of both set size and probing probability on encoding precision in nine delayed-estimation experiments . Moreover , we find support for the prediction that the total amount of invested resource can vary non-monotonically with set size . Finally , we show that it is sometimes optimal to encode only a subset or even none of the relevant items in a task . Our findings raise the possibility that cognitive "limitations" arise from rational cost minimization rather than from constraints .  To test the predictions of the model against empirical data , we apply it to the delayed-estimation task ( Wilken and Ma , 2004; Blake et al . , 1997; Prinzmetal et al . , 1998 ) , which is currently one of the most widely used paradigms in VWM research . In this task , the observer briefly holds a set of items in memory and then reports their estimate of a randomly probed target item ( Figure 2A ) . Set size effects manifest as a widening of the estimation error distribution as the number of items is increased ( Figure 2B ) , which suggests a decrease in the amount of resource per item ( Figure 2C ) . To apply our model to this task , we express the expected local behavioral cost as an expected value of the behavioral cost with respect to the error distribution , ( 12 ) c¯behavioral , i ( J¯i;τ ) =∫cbehavioral , i ( ε ) p ( ε;J¯i , τ ) dε , where the behavioral cost function cbehavioral , i ( ε ) maps an encoding error ε to a cost and p ( ε;J¯i , τ ) is the predicted distribution of ε for an item encoded with resource J¯i . We first specify p ( ε;J¯i , τ ) and then turn to cbehavioral , i ( ε ) . As the task-relevant feature in delayed-estimation experiments is usually a circular variable ( color or orientation ) , we make the common assumption that ε follows a Von Mises distribution . We denote this distribution by VM ( ε;J ) , where J is one-to-one related to the distribution’s concentration parameter κ ( Appendix 1 ) . The distribution of ε for a stimulus encoded with resource J¯i is found by integrating over J , p ( ε;J¯i , τ ) =∫VM ( ε;J ) Gamma ( J;J¯i , τ ) dJ Finally , we specify the behavioral cost function cbehavioral , i ( ε ) in Equation 12 , which maps an estimation error ε to a behavioral cost . As in most psychophysical experiments , human subjects tend to perform well on delayed-estimation tasks even when the reward is independent of their performance . This suggests that the behavioral cost function is strongly determined by internal incentives . A recent paper ( Sims , 2015 ) has attempted to measure this mapping and proposed a two-parameter function . We will test that proposal later , but for the moment we assume a simpler , one-parameter power-law function , cbehavioral , i ( ε;β ) =| ε |β , where power β is a free parameter . To obtain an intuition for the predictions of this model , we plot in Figure 2D for a specific set of parameters the two expected costs per item and their sum , Equation 11 , as a function of J¯ . The expected behavioral cost per item depends on pi and decreases with J¯ ( colored curves in left panel ) , while the expected neural cost per item is independent of pi and increases ( black line in left panel ) . The expected total cost per item has a unique minimum ( middle panel ) . The value of J¯ corresponding to this minimum , J¯optimal , increases with pi ( Figure 2D , right ) . Hence , in this example , the optimal amount of resource per item is an increasing function of its probing probability . We next consider the special case in which each item is equally likely to be probed , that is , pi = 1/N . The values of pi in Figure 2D then correspond to set sizes 1 , 2 , 4 , and 8 . When replotting J¯optimal as a function of N , we find a set size effect ( Figure 2E , right panel ) that is qualitatively similar to the empirical result in Figure 2C . An alternative way to understand this predicted set size effect is by considering how the three expected costs across all items , Equation 3 , depend on J¯ . Substituting pi = 1/N in Equation 9 , we find that the expected behavioral cost across all items is independent of set size ( Figure 2E , left panel , black curve ) . Moreover , when all items are encoded with the same amount of resource ( which is necessarily the optimal solution when pi is identical across items ) , the expected neural cost across all items equals NJ¯ and therefore scales linearly with set size ( Figure 2E , left panel , colored lines ) . The sum of these terms has a unique minimum J¯optimal ( Figure 2E , center panel ) , which monotonically decreases with set size ( Figure 2E , right panel ) . The costs plotted in Figure 2E can be considered as obtained by multiplying the corresponding costs in Figure 2D by N . The model thus predicts set size effects in delayed-estimation tasks that are fully mediated by individual-item probing probability . The latter notion is consistent with empirical observations . Palmer et al . ( 1993 ) reported that "relevant set size" ( where irrelevance means pi = 0 ) acts virtually identically to actual set size . Emrich et al . ( 2017 ) independently varied probing probability and set size in their experiment , and found that the former was a better predictor of performance than the latter . Based on this , they hypothesized that set size effects are mediated by probing probability . The predictions of our model are qualitatively consistent with these findings . To examine how well the model accounts for set size effects in empirical data , we fit it to data from six experiments that are part of a previously published benchmark set ( E1-E6 in Table 1 ) . We use a Bayesian optimization method ( Acerbi and Ma , 2017 ) to estimate the maximum-likelihood parameter values , separately for each individual data set ( see Table 2 for a summary of these estimates ) . The model accounts well for the subject-level error distributions ( Figure 3A ) and the two statistics that summarize these distributions ( Figure 3B ) . The original benchmark set ( van den Berg et al . , 2014 ) contained four more data sets , but three of those were published in papers that were later retracted and another one contains data at only two set sizes . Although we decided to leave those four datasets out of our main analyses , the model accounts well for them too ( Figure 2—figure supplement 1 ) . We next compare the goodness of fit of the resource-rational model to that of a descriptive variant in which the amount of resource per item , J¯ , is assumed to be a power-law function of set size ( all other aspects of the model are kept the same ) . This variant is identical to the VP-A model in our earlier work , which is one of the most accurate descriptive models currently available ( van den Berg et al . , 2014 ) . Model comparison based on the Akaike Information Criterion ( AIC ) ( Akaike , 1974 ) indicates that the data provide similar support for both models , with a small advantage for the resource-rational model ( ΔAIC = 5 . 27 ± 0 . 70; throughout the paper , X ± Y indicates mean ±s . e . m . across subjects ) . Hence , the resource-rational model provides a principled explanation of set size effects without sacrificing quality of fit compared to one of the best available descriptive models of VWM . We find that the resource-rational model also fits better than a model in which the total amount of resource is fixed and divided equally across items ( ΔAIC = 13 . 9 ± 1 . 4 ) . So far , we have assumed that there is random variability in the actual amount of resource assigned to an item . Next , we test an equal-precision variant of the resource-rational model , by fixing parameter τ to a very small value ( 10−3 ) . Consistent with the results obtained with the variable-precision model , we find that the rational model has a substantial AIC advantage over a fixed-resource model ( ΔAIC = 43 . 0 ± 6 . 8 ) and is on equal footing with the power-law model ( ΔAIC = 2 . 0 ± 1 . 7 in favor of the power-law model ) . However , all three equal-precision models ( fixed resource , power law , rational ) are outperformed by their variable-precision equivalents by over 100 AIC points . Therefore , we will only consider variable-precision models in the remainder of the paper . To get an indication of the absolute goodness of fit of the resource-rational model , we next examine how much room for improvement there is in the fits . We do this by fitting a non-parametric model variant in which resource J¯ is a free parameter at each set size , while keeping all other aspects of the model the same . We find a marginal AIC difference , suggesting that the fits of the rational model cannot be improved much further without overfitting the data ( ΔAIC = 3 . 49 ± 0 . 93 , in favor of the non-parametric model ) . An examination of the fitted parameter values corroborates this finding: the estimated resource values in the non-parametric model closely match the optimal values in the rational model ( Figure 3C ) . So far , we have assumed that behavioral cost is a power-law function of the absolute estimation error , cbehavioral ( ε ) =|ε|β . To evaluate the necessity of a free parameter in this function , we also test three parameter-free choices: |ε| , ε2 , and −cos ( ε ) . Model comparison favors the original model with AIC differences of 14 . 0 ± 2 . 8 , 24 . 4 ± 4 . 1 , and 19 . 5 ± 3 . 5 , respectively . While there may be other parameter-free functions that give better fits , we expect that a free parameter is unavoidable here , as the error-to-cost mapping may differ across experiments ( because of differences in external incentives ) and also across subjects within an experiment ( because of differences in intrinsic motivation ) . Finally , we also test a two-parameter function that was proposed recently ( Equation ( 5 ) in Sims [2015] ) . The main difference with our original choice is that this alternative function allows for saturation effects in the error-to-cost mapping . However , this extra flexibility does not increase the goodness of fit sufficiently to justify the additional parameter , as the original model outperforms this variant with an AIC difference of 5 . 3 ± 1 . 8 . Finally , we use five-fold cross validation to verify the AIC-based results reported in this section . We find that they are all consistent ( Table 3 ) . One quantitative feature that sets the resource-rational theory apart from previous theories is its predicted relation between set size and the total amount of invested resource , J¯total=∑i=1N J¯i . This quantity is by definition constant in fixed-resource models , and in power-law models it varies monotonically with set size . By contrast , we find that in the fits to several of the experiments , J¯total varies non-monotonically with set size ( Figure 3D , gray curves ) . To examine whether there is evidence for non-monotonic trends in the subject data , we next compute an "empirical" estimate J¯total=∑i=1N J¯^i , where J¯^i are the best-fitting resource estimates in the non-parametric model . We find that these estimates show evidence of similar non-monotonic relations in some of the experiments ( Figure 3D , black circles ) . To quantify this evidence , we perform Bayesian paired t-tests in which we compare the estimates of J¯total at set size 3 with the estimates at set sizes 1 and 6 in the experiments that included these three set sizes ( E2 and E4-E6 ) . These tests reveal strong evidence that the total amount of resource is higher at set size 3 than at set sizes 1 ( BF+0=1 . 05·107 ) and 6 ( BF+0=4 . 02·102 ) . We next compute for each subject the set size at which J¯total is largest , which we denote by Npeak , and find a subject-averaged value of 3 . 52 ± 0 . 18 . Altogether , these findings suggest that the total amount of resource that subjects spend on item encoding varies non-monotonically with set size , which is consistent with predictions from the resource-rational model , but not with any of the previously proposed models . To the best of our knowledge , evidence for a possible non-monotonicity in the relation between set size and total encoding resource has not been reported before . As we noted before , the model predictions do not explicitly depend on set size , N . Yet , we found that the model accounts well for set size effects in the experiments that we considered so far ( E1-E6 ) . This happens because in all those experiments , N was directly coupled with probing probability pi , through pi = 1/N . This coupling makes it impossible to determine whether changes in subjects’ encoding precision are the result of changes in N or changes in pi . Therefore , we will next consider experiments in which individual probing probabilities and set size were varied independently of each other ( E7-E9 in Table 1 ) . According to our model , the effects of N that we found in E1-E6 were really effects of pi . Therefore , we should be able to make predictions about effects of pi in E7-E9 by recasting the effects of N in E1-E6 as effects of pi = 1/N . Given that the amount of resource per item in E1-E6 decreases with N , a first prediction is that it should increase as a function of pi in E7-E9 . A second and particularly interesting prediction is that the estimated total amount of invested resource should vary non-monotonically with pi and peak at a value ppeak that is close to 1/Npeak found in E1-E6 ( see previous section ) . Based on the values of Npeak in experiments E1-E6 , we find a prediction ppeak = 0 . 358 ± 0 . 026 . To test the predictions presented in the previous section and , more generally , to evaluate how well our model accounts for effects of pi on encoding precision , we fit it to data from three experiments in which probing probability was varied independently of set size ( E7-E9 in Table 1 ) . In the first of these experiments ( E7 ) , seven subjects performed a delayed-estimation task at set sizes 2 , 4 , and 8 . On each trial , one of the items – indicated with a cue – was three times more likely to be probed than any of the other items . Hence , the probing probabilities for the cued and uncued items were 3/4 and 1/4 at N = 2 , respectively , 1/2 and 1/6 at N = 4 , and 3/10 and 1/10 at N = 8 . The subject data show a clear effect of pi: the higher the probing probability of an item , the more precise the subject responses ( Figure 4A , top row , black circles ) . We find that the resource-rational model , Equation ( 11 ) , accounts well for this effect ( Figure 4A , top row , curves ) and does so by increasing the amount of resource as a function of probing probability pi ( Figure 4B , left panel , red curves ) . In the other two experiments ( E8 and E9 ) , the number of cued items and cue validity were varied between conditions , while set size was kept constant at 4 or 6 . For example , in one of the conditions of E8 , three of the four items were cued with 100% validity , such that pi was 1/3 for each cued item and 0 for the uncued item; in another condition of the same experiment , two of the four items were cued with 66 . 7% validity , meaning that pi was 1/3 for each cued item and 1/6 for each uncued item . The unique values of pi across all conditions were {0 , 1/6 , 2/9 , 1/4 , 1/3 , 1/2 , 1} in E8 and {0 , 1/12 , 1/10 , 2/15 , 1/6 , 1/3 , 1/2 , and 1} in E9 . As in E7 , responses become more precise with increasing pi and the model accounts well for this ( Figure 4A ) , again by increasing the amount of resource assigned to an item with pi ( Figure 4B ) . We next examine how our model compares to the models proposed in the papers that originally published these three data sets . In contrast to our model , both Bays ( 2014 ) and Emrich et al . ( 2017 ) proposed that the total amount of invested resource is fixed . However , while Bays proposed that the distribution of this resource is in accordance with minimization of a behavioral cost function ( as in our model ) , Emrich et al . postulated that the resource is distributed in proportion to each item’s probing probability . Hence , while our model optimizes both the amount of invested resource and its distribution , Bays’ model only optimizes the distribution , and Emrich et al . ’s model does not explicitly optimize anything . To examine how the three proposals compare in terms of how well they account for the data , we fit two variants of our model that encapsulate the main assumptions of these two earlier proposals . In the first variant , we compute J¯optimal as argminbfJ¯ [ ∑i=1N pic¯behavioral ( J¯i;β , τ ) ] under the constraint ∑i=1N J¯i=J¯total , which is consistent with Bays’ proposal . Hence , in this variant , the neural cost function is removed and parameter λ is replaced by a parameter J¯total – otherwise , all aspects of the model are the same as in our main model . In the variant that we use to test Emrich et al . ’s proposal , we compute J¯i for each item as piJ¯total , where pi is the probing probability and J¯total is again a free parameter that represents the total amount of resource . Fitting the models to the data from all 47 subjects in E7-E9 , we find a substantial advantage of our model over the proposal by Emrich et al . , with an AIC difference of 18 . 0 ± 3 . 9 . However , our model cannot reliably be distinguished from the proposal by Bays: either model is preferred in about half of the subjects ( our model: 27; Bays: 20 ) and the subject-averaged AIC difference is negligible ( 1 . 8 ± 2 . 5 in favor of our model ) . Hence , the model comparison suggests quite convincingly that subjects distribute their resource near-optimally across items with unequal probing probabilities , but it is inconclusive regarding the question of whether the total amount of invested resource is fixed or optimized . As an alternative way to address the question of whether the total amount of resource is fixed , we again fit a non-parametric model to obtain “empirical” estimates of the total amount of invested resource . To this end , we define J¯^total=J¯^i/pi , where J¯^i are the best-fitting values in a non-parametric model , such that J¯^total represents the estimated total amount of resource that a subject would invest to encode a display filled with items that all have probing probability pi . We find that these estimates show signs of a non-monotonicity as a function of pi ( Figure 4B , black points ) , which are captured reasonably well by the resource-rational model ( Figure 4B , black curves ) . Averaged across all subjects in E7-E9 , the value of pi at which J¯^total is largest is 0 . 384 ± 0 . 037 , which is close to the predicted value of 0 . 358 ± 0 . 026 ( see previous section ) . Indeed , a Bayesian independent-samples t-test supports the null hypothesis that there is no difference ( BF01 = 4 . 27 ) . Hence , while the model comparison results in the previous paragraph were inconclusive regarding the question of whether the total amount of invested resource is fixed or optimized , the present analysis provides evidence against fixed-resource models and confirms a prediction made by our own model . In summary , the results in this section show that effects of probing probability in E7-E9 are well accounted for by the same model as we used to explain effects of set size in E1-E6 . Regardless of whether total resource is fixed or optimized , this finding provides further support for the suggestion that set size effects are mediated by probing probability ( Emrich et al . , 2017 ) or , more generally , by item relevance ( Palmer et al . , 1993 ) . There is an ongoing debate about the question of whether a task-relevant item is sometimes completely left out of working memory ( Adam et al . , 2017; Luck and Vogel , 2013; Ma et al . , 2014; Rouder et al . , 2008 ) . Specifically , slot models predict that this happens when set size exceeds the number of slots ( Zhang and Luck , 2008 ) . In resource models , the possibility of complete forgetting has so far been an added ingredient separate from the core of the model ( van den Berg et al . , 2014 ) . Our normative theory allows for a reinterpretation of this question: are there situations in which it is optimal to assign zero resource to the encoding of an item ? We already established that this could happen in delayed-estimation tasks: whenever the probing probability is lower than a threshold value p0=λ| c¯behavioral ( 0 ) | , the optimal amount of resource to invest on encoding the item is zero ( see Theory ) . But what values does p0 take in practice ? Considering the expected behavioral cost function of a fixed-precision model ( a variable-precision model with τ↓0 ) , we can prove that p0 = 0 , that is , it is never optimal to invest no resource ( Appendix 1 ) . For the expected behavioral cost function of the variable-precision model , however , simulations indicate that p0 can be greater than 0 ( we were not able to derive this result analytically ) . We next examine whether this ever happens under parameter values that are representative for human subjects . Using the maximum-likelihood parameters obtained from the data in E7-E9 , we estimate that p0 ( expressed as a percentage ) equals 8 . 86 ± 0 . 54% . Moreover , we find that for 8 of the 47 subjects , p0 is larger than the lowest probing probability in the experiment , which suggests that these subjects sometimes entirely ignored one or more of the items . For these subjects , the error distributions on items with pi<p0 look uniform ( see Figure 4C for an example ) and Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests for uniformity did not reject the null hypothesis in any of these cases ( p>0 . 05 in all tests ) . These results suggest that there might be a principled reason why people sometimes leave task-relevant items out of visual working memory in delayed-estimation experiments . However , our model cannot explain all previously reported evidence for this . In particular , when probing probabilities are equal for all items , the model makes an "all or none" prediction: all items are encoded when pi>p0 and none are encoded otherwise . Hence , the model cannot explain why subjects in tasks with equal probing probabilities sometimes seem to encode a subset of task-relevant items . For example , a recent study reported that in a whole-report delayed-estimation experiment ( pi = 1 for all items ) , subjects encoded about half of the six presented items on each trial ( Adam et al . , 2017 ) . Unless additional assumptions are made , our model cannot account for this finding . The results so far show that the resource-rational model accounts well for data in a variety of delayed-estimation experiments . To examine how its predictions generalize to other tasks , we next consider a change detection task , which is another widely used paradigm in research on VWM . In this task , the observer is sequentially presented with two sets of items and reports if any one of them changed ( Figure 5A ) . In the variant that we consider here , a change is present on exactly half of the trials and is equally likely to occur in any of the items . We construct a model for this task by combining Equations 3 , 4 , and 8 with an expected behavioral cost function based on the Bayesian decision rule for this task ( see Appendix 1 ) , which yields ( 14 ) J¯optimal=argminJ¯ [ p ( error|J¯ ) +λ∑i=1N J¯i ] , where p ( error|J¯ ) is the expected behavioral cost function , which in this case specifies the probability of an error response when a set of items is encoded with resource J¯ . In contrast to local tasks , the expected total cost in global tasks cannot be written as a sum of expected costs per item , because the expected behavioral cost – such as p ( error|J¯ ) in Equation ( 14 ) – can only be computed globally , not per item . Consequently , the elements of J¯optimal in global tasks cannot be computed separately for each item . This makes resource optimization computationally much more demanding , because it requires solving an N-dimensional minimization problem instead of N one-dimensional problems . We perform a simulation at N = 2 ( which is still tractable ) to get an intuition of the predictions that follow from Equation ( 14 ) . For practical convenience , we assume in this simulation that there is no variability in precision , τ↓0 , such that λ is the only model parameter . The results ( Figure 5B ) show that the cost-minimizing strategy is to encode neither of the items when the amount of reward per correct trial is very low ( left panel ) and encode them both when reward is high ( right panel ) . However , interestingly , there is also an intermediate regime in which the optimal strategy is to encode one of the two items , but not the other one ( Figure 5B , central panel ) . Hence , just as in the delayed-estimation task , there are conditions in which it is optimal to encode only a subset of items . An important difference , however , is that in the delayed-estimation task this only happens when items have unequal probing probabilities , while in this change detection task it even happens when all items are equally likely to change . Simulations at larger set sizes quickly become computationally intractable , because of the reason mentioned above . However , the results at N = 2 suggest that if two items are encoded , the optimal solution is to encode them with the same amount of resource ( Figure 5C ) . Therefore , we conjecture that all non-zero values in J¯optimal are identical , which would mean that the entire vector can be summarized by two values: the number of encoded items , which we denote by Koptimal , and the amount of resource assigned to each encoded item , which we denote by J¯optimal . Using this conjecture ( which we have not yet been able to prove ) , we are able to efficiently compute predictions at an arbitrary set size . Simulation results show that the model then predicts that both Koptimal and J¯optimal depend on set size ( Figure 5D , left ) and produces response data that are qualitatively similar to human data ( Figure 5D , right ) . 
Plants use autophagy to safeguard against infectious diseases . However , how plant pathogens interfere with autophagy-related processes is unknown . Here , we show that PexRD54 , an effector from the Irish potato famine pathogen Phytophthora infestans , binds host autophagy protein ATG8CL to stimulate autophagosome formation . PexRD54 depletes the autophagy cargo receptor Joka2 out of ATG8CL complexes and interferes with Joka2's positive effect on pathogen defense . Thus , a plant pathogen effector has evolved to antagonize a host autophagy cargo receptor to counteract host defenses .  Autophagy is conserved catabolic pathway that sequesters unwanted cytosolic components into newly formed double membrane vesicles , autophagosomes , to direct them to the cell’s lytic compartment ( He and Klionsky , 2009 ) . The process plays a vital role in survival of the organism by improving cellular adaptation to environmental and stress conditions ( Shintani and Klionsky , 2004 ) . Autophagy provides building blocks and energy for elementary cellular processes by degrading dysfunctional or unnecessary cellular components during nutrient deprivation ( Shintani and Klionsky , 2004 ) . However , even though autophagy was initially thought to be a bulk degradation process activated during starvation , recent studies showed that it can act selectively , capturing specific substrates through specialized cargo receptors to respond to a variety of environmental and stress conditions ( Stolz et al . , 2014 ) . Autophagy is executed through coordinated action of more than 30 core proteins known as the ATG ( autophagy-related ) proteins ( Lamb et al . , 2013 ) . Selective autophagy is regulated through specific interactions of autophagy cargo receptors and ATG8 proteins ( Stolz et al . , 2014 ) . Autophagy cargo receptors carry a short sequence motif called ATG8-interaction motif ( AIM ) that binds lipidated ATG8 proteins anchored on autophagosomal membranes . Cargo receptors mediate recognition of a diverse set of cargo ( Stolz et al . , 2014 ) . For instance , mammalian autophagy cargo receptors NDP52 and optineurin can recognize intracellular pathogenic bacteria and mediate their autophagic removal by sorting the captured bacteria inside the ATG8-coated autophagosomes ( Boyle and Randow , 2013 ) . Nevertheless , the precise molecular mechanisms of selective autophagy and the components that regulate it remain unknown ( Huang and Brumell , 2014; Mostowy , 2013; Randow , 2011 ) . In plants , autophagy plays important roles in stress tolerance , senescence , development , and defense against invading pathogens ( Patel and Dinesh-Kumar , 2008; Lenz et al . , 2011; Vanhee and Batoko , 2011; Li and Vierstra , 2012; Lv et al . , 2014; Teh and Hofius , 2014 ) . Specifically , autophagy is implicated in the accumulation of defense hormones and the hypersensitive response , a form of plant cell death that prevents spread of microbial infection ( Yoshimoto et al . , 2009 ) . However , the molecular mechanisms that mediate defense-related autophagy and the selective nature of this process are poorly understood . Furthermore , how adapted plant pathogens manipulate defense-related autophagy and/or subvert autophagy for nutrient uptake is unknown . In this study , we investigated how a pathogen interferes with and coopts a plant autophagy pathway . The potato blight pathogen , Phytophthora infestans , is a serious threat to food security , causing crop losses that , if alleviated , could feed hundreds of millions of people ( Fisher et al . , 2012 ) . This pathogen delivers RXLR-type effector proteins inside plant cells to enable parasitism ( Morgan and Kamoun , 2007 ) . RXLR effectors form a diverse family of modular proteins that alter a variety of host processes and therefore serve as useful probes to dissect key pathways for pathogen invasion ( Morgan and Kamoun , 2007; Bozkurt et al . , 2012 ) . Here , we show that the RXLR effector PexRD54 has evolved to bind host autophagy protein ATG8CL to stimulate autophagosome formation . In addition , PexRD54 depletes the autophagy cargo receptor Joka2 out of ATG8CL complexes to counteract host defenses against P . infestans . 
Upon cardiac pathological conditions such as ischemia , microenvironmental changes instruct a series of cellular responses that trigger cardiac fibroblasts-mediated tissue adaptation and inflammation . A comprehensive model of how early environmental changes may induce cardiac fibroblasts ( CF ) pathological responses is far from being elucidated , partly due to the lack of approaches involving complex and simultaneous environmental stimulation . Here , we provide a first analysis of human primary CF behavior by means of a multi-stimulus microdevice for combined application of cyclic mechanical strain and controlled oxygen tension . Our findings elucidate differential human CFs responses to different combinations of the above stimuli . Individual stimuli cause proliferative effects ( PHH3+ mitotic cells , YAP translocation , PDGF secretion ) or increase collagen presence . Interestingly , only the combination of hypoxia and a simulated loss of contractility ( 2% strain ) is able to additionally induce increased CF release of inflammatory and pro-fibrotic cytokines and matrix metalloproteinases .  When supply of oxygen and nutrients to the myocardium is critically reduced ( ischemia ) , a complex tissue response takes place: within hours tissue necrosis and death of contractile cardiac myocytes occurs in the infarcted area giving rise to an inflammatory phase that recruits immune cells and activates quiescent cardiac fibroblasts ( CFs ) ; within a few days a proliferative phase begins , where activated CFs invade the infarcted area and contribute to degrading and replacing the extra-cellular matrix with a collagen-based scar; within weeks the maturation of the fibrotic scar is completed ( Frangogiannis , 2014; Heusch et al . , 2014 ) . Cellular and molecular events such as excessive proliferation of CFs , phenotypic switch of CFs , high levels of inflammatory cytokines and humoral factors , unbalanced synthesis of extracellular matrix ( ECM ) proteins and matrix metalloproteinases ( MMP ) -mediated degradation of ECM are generally regarded as hallmarks of early fibrotic tissue response ( Fan et al . , 2012; Krenning et al . , 2010; Porter and Turner , 2009; Shinde and Frangogiannis , 2014 ) . This essential process maintains tissue integrity , however , it often leads to excessive and adverse CFs remodeling of non-infarcted areas ( Fan et al . , 2012; Kania et al . , 2009; Talman and Ruskoaho , 2016 ) associated with cardiac dysfunction and increased mortality ( Okada et al . , 2005 ) . Controlled anti-fibrotic strategies still require deeper understanding and advanced models of cardiac fibrosis mechanisms ( Leask , 2010; Roubille et al . , 2014 ) . In general , the onset of pathological myocardial conditions causes alterations of specific environmental cues at the cellular scale: mechanical strain decreases ( loss of contractility ) ; oxygen and nutrient levels dramatically decrease ( ischemia ) ; levels of inflammatory cytokines increase ( post-injury inflammatory response ) . In an attempt to provide in vitro models of cardiac disease , CFs have been widely studied under relevant physico-chemical stimulation such as mechanical stress ( Schroer and Merryman , 2015; Tomasek et al . , 2002 ) , oxygen deprivation ( Clancy et al . , 2007; Tamamori et al . , 1997 ) and biochemical stimulation with pro-fibrotic cytokines ( Edgley et al . , 2012; Lijnen et al . , 2000; Petrov et al . , 2002 ) . The application of mechanical stress has been shown to have the following effects on CFs: increased ECM protein synthesis ( Carver et al . , 1991 ) ; controversial proliferative behavior ( Atance et al . , 2004; Butt and Bishop , 1997; Dalla Costa et al . , 2010; Liao et al . , 2004 ) , with recent reports of strain intensity-dependent effects ( Ugolini et al . , 2016 ) ; increased production of pro-fibrotic and inflammatory cytokines such as TGF-β ( transforming growth factor-beta ) ( Leask , 2007 ) and TNF-α ( tumor necrosis factor-alpha ) ( Yokoyama et al . , 1999 ) . While previous mechanical stress experiments were performed in a normoxic environment ( NX , approximately 20% O2 , the standard oxygen level of ambient air ) , CFs were shown to be sensitive to O2 level variations from physoxia ( PX ) , defined as the physiologic oxygen level in living tissues ( about 5–6% O2 in the myocardium [Gonschior et al . , 1992; Roy et al . , 2003; Sen et al . , 2006; Winegrad et al . , 1999] ) . Both hypoxia ( HX , 1–3% O2 ) and NX induce a pro-inflammatory and fibrogenic phenotype in cultured CFs ( Roy et al . , 2003; Sen and Roy , 2010 ) . These findings imply that normoxic oxygen levels are perceived by CFs as a state of hyperoxia and that a significant bias exists when culturing CFs in non-physiological oxygen environments . The exposure of CFs to HX has been shown to induce collagen production and proliferation of CFs ( Gao et al . , 2014; Tamamori et al . , 1997 ) , while studies suggest that MMP-based remodeling may not be triggered by HX alone ( Riches et al . , 2009 ) . Given the complexity of in vivo pathological evolution , the elucidation of how environmental stimuli interplay and guide cellular responses is paramount . To date , no comprehensive model is able to recapitulate early cellular events taking place after acute myocardial injury and there is no report of cardiac cells subjected to simultaneous mechanical strain and controlled oxygen changes , two major environmental variables involved in cardiac injury and CF adaptive responses . This is mostly due to the lack of compact platforms enabling the controlled application of multiple stimuli . To address this need , we here report the improvement of a previously described multi-chamber microdevice dedicated to the application of cyclic strain to cell monolayers ( Ugolini et al . , 2016 ) . By adding a system for controlling oxygen changes , we significantly expanded the experimental complexity and mimicking capabilities of the device . We here finely controlled the applied mechanical strain and oxygen regimes sensed by CFs to model early environmental changes in cardiac injury and provide insights into individual or synergistic contributions of the environmental signals in the activation of early CF responses relevant to cardiac fibrotic disease . Shortly after an ischemic myocardial insult ( e . g . , acute coronary artery occlusion ) tissue oxygen levels drop from approximately 5–6% O2 ( Gonschior et al . , 1992; Sen et al . , 2006; Winegrad et al . , 1999 ) to near-zero ( Roy et al . , 2003 ) , rapidly inducing loss of cardiac myocytes contractility . In terms of in vitro model parameters , we thus selected 5% O2 ( PX ) as a physiological oxygen level and 1% O2 ( HX ) as an oxygen level characteristic of ischemic myocardial injury . Dramatic alterations of injured myocardial tissue also take place in early timeframes: tissue bulging and dilations are commonly observed together with loss of contractile function ( Eek et al . , 2010; Pfeffer and Braunwald , 1990; Picard et al . , 1990; Tennant and Wiggers , 1935 ) . Cardiac imaging studies agree in the interpretation that global strains are abruptly reduced shortly after myocardial insult ( Flachskampf et al . , 2011; Hoit , 2011; Mollema et al . , 2010 ) . Quantitatively , strain values recorded vary significantly throughout the heart . Although absolute values may depend on imaging algorithms , strains in ischemic/injured regions have been reported to be 2–4 fold lower than in healthy myocardial regions ( e . g . less than 3% in ischemic regions versus approximately 10% in healthy regions [Dandel et al . , 2009; Vartdal et al . , 2007] ) . Within this range and in line with previous in vitro observations of CFs behavior ( Ugolini et al . , 2016 ) , we selected 2% strain as indicative of reduced contractility and 8% strain as representative of full myocardial contractility . These environmental changes and the following initial cellular responses happen in a timeframe of hours , as shown in vitro ( van Nieuwenhoven et al . , 2013; Turner et al . , 2007 , 2009 ) as well as in vivo ( Guillén et al . , 1995; Morishita et al . , 2015 ) . We thus performed experiments lasting 24 hr and evaluated the main early aspects that govern fibrotic responses in the injured myocardium: ECM remodeling , with stainings for collagen I and quantifications of MMP expression; proliferation of CFs , with analyses of mitotic cells , Hippo pathway signaling and mitogenic PDGF ( platelet-derived growth factor ) expression; secretion of inflammatory and pro-fibrotic cytokines in CF supernatants; myofibroblast differentiation , through stainings for αSMA ( α-smooth muscle actin ) . Results of our investigation provide insights into how the combination of environmental stimuli may act synergistically or independently to drive in vitro adaptive early CF responses . 
Histone acetylation and deposition of H2A . Z variant are integral aspects of active transcription . In Drosophila , the single DOMINO chromatin regulator complex is thought to combine both activities via an unknown mechanism . Here we show that alternative isoforms of the DOMINO nucleosome remodeling ATPase , DOM-A and DOM-B , directly specify two distinct multi-subunit complexes . Both complexes are necessary for transcriptional regulation but through different mechanisms . The DOM-B complex incorporates H2A . V ( the fly ortholog of H2A . Z ) genome-wide in an ATP-dependent manner , like the yeast SWR1 complex . The DOM-A complex , instead , functions as an ATP-independent histone acetyltransferase complex similar to the yeast NuA4 , targeting lysine 12 of histone H4 . Our work provides an instructive example of how different evolutionary strategies lead to similar functional separation . In yeast and humans , nucleosome remodeling and histone acetyltransferase complexes originate from gene duplication and paralog specification . Drosophila generates the same diversity by alternative splicing of a single gene .  Nucleosomes , the fundamental units of chromatin , are inherently stable and organized in polymeric fibers of variable compactness ( Baldi et al . , 2018; Erdel and Rippe , 2018 ) . The dynamic properties of the fiber required for gene regulation are implemented by several broad principles . ATP-dependent nucleosome remodeling factors slide or evict nucleosomes ( Clapier et al . , 2017 ) , chemical modifications of histones create new interaction surfaces ( Bowman and Poirier , 2015; Zhao and Garcia , 2015 ) and histone variants furnish nucleosomes with special features ( Talbert and Henikoff , 2017 ) . The very conserved H2A variant H2A . Z accounts for ~5–10% of the total H2A-type histone pool in vertebrates ( Redon et al . , 2002; Thatcher and Gorovsky , 1994 ) and flies ( Bonnet et al . , 2019 ) . H2A . Z is primarily found at active promoters and enhancers , where it is thought to be important to regulate transcription initiation and early elongation ( Adam et al . , 2001; Weber et al . , 2010; Weber et al . , 2014 ) . In Saccharomyces cerevisiae , H2A . Z is introduced into chromatin by the SWR1 complex ( SWR1 . C ) , a multi-subunit ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler with the INO80-type ATPase SWR1 at its core ( Mizuguchi et al . , 2004; Ranjan et al . , 2013; Wang et al . , 2018a; Willhoft et al . , 2018; Wu et al . , 2005 ) . In humans , the two SWR1 orthologs EP400 and SRCAP may also be involved in H2A . Z incorporation ( Greenberg et al . , 2019; Pradhan et al . , 2016 ) . In Drosophila melanogaster , where H2A . Z is named H2A . V ( Baldi and Becker , 2013; van Daal and Elgin , 1992 ) , only one gene codes for a SWR1 ortholog: domino ( dom ) ( Ruhf et al . , 2001 ) . The first biochemical characterization revealed the presence of a multi-subunit complex composed of 15 proteins associated with the DOM ATPase ( Kusch et al . , 2004 ) . While many of the interactors identified are orthologous to the yeast SWR1 . C subunits , additional interactors were found . Surprisingly , they showed similarity to components of a distinct yeast complex , the Nucleosome Acetyltransferase of H4 ( NuA4 . C ) ( Kusch et al . , 2004 ) . NuA4 . C is a histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) complex with the histone H4 N-terminal domain as a primary target ( Allard et al . , 1999; Doyon et al . , 2004; Wang et al . , 2018a; Xu et al . , 2016 ) . The DOM complex ( DOM . C ) appeared then to be a chimera , a fusion between two complexes with different biochemical activities . It has been proposed that both enzymatic activities of DOM . C , histone acetylation and histone variant exchange , are required for H2A . V turnover during DNA damage response ( Kusch et al . , 2004 ) . It is unclear , however , if this model of DOM . C action could be generalized to other processes , such as transcription regulation . Furthermore , it is still not known how H2A . V is incorporated globally into chromosomes while , at the same time , enriched at promoters . It is long known that the dom transcripts are alternatively spliced to generate two major isoforms , DOM-A and DOM-B ( Ruhf et al . , 2001 ) . We and others previously found that the two splice variants play non-redundant , essential roles during development with interesting phenotypic differences ( Börner and Becker , 2016; Liu et al . , 2019 ) . In this work , we systematically characterized the molecular context and function of each DOM splice variant in D . melanogaster cell lines and assessed their contribution to the activity of the DOM . C in the context of transcription . We discovered the existence of two separate , isoform-specific complexes with characteristic composition . Both are involved in transcription regulation , but through different mechanisms . On the one hand , we found that the DOM-B . C is the main ATP-dependent remodeler for H2A . V , responsible for its deposition across the genome and specifically at active promoters . On the other hand , we discovered that DOM-A . C is not involved in bulk H2A . V incorporation , despite the presence of an ATPase domain and many shared subunits with DOM-B . C . Rather , we realized that DOM-A . C might be the ‘missing’ acetyltransferase NuA4 . C of D . melanogaster , which specifically targets lysine 12 of histone H4 ( H4K12 ) , the most abundant and yet uncharacterized H4 acetylation in flies ( Feller et al . , 2015 ) . Surprisingly , our data also suggest that the ATPase activity of DOM-A is dispensable for H4K12 acetylation by the DOM-A . C , a principle that might be conserved across metazoans . Our work illustrates how alternative splicing generates functional diversity amongst chromatin regulators . 
Neuromuscular junction formation requires proper interaction between motoneurons and muscle cells . β-Catenin ( Ctnnb1 ) in muscle is critical for motoneuron differentiation; however , little is known about the relevant retrograde signal . In this paper , we dissected which functions of muscle Ctnnb1 are critical by an in vivo transgenic approach . We show that Ctnnb1 mutant without the transactivation domain was unable to rescue presynaptic deficits of Ctnnb1 mutation , indicating the involvement of transcription regulation . On the other hand , the cell-adhesion function of Ctnnb1 is dispensable . We screened for proteins that may serve as a Ctnnb1-directed retrograde factor and identified Slit2 . Transgenic expression of Slit2 specifically in the muscle was able to diminish presynaptic deficits by Ctnnb1 mutation in mice . Slit2 immobilized on beads was able to induce synaptophysin puncta in axons of spinal cord explants . Together , these observations suggest that Slit2 serves as a factor utilized by muscle Ctnnb1 to direct presynaptic differentiation .  The neuromuscular junction ( NMJ ) is a cholinergic synapse that rapidly conveys signals from motoneurons to muscle cells to control muscle contraction . It exhibits a high degree of subcellular specialization characteristic of chemical synapses and has served as a model to study synaptogenesis ( Sanes and Lichtman , 2001; Wu et al . , 2010; Barik et al . , 2014b ) . Abnormal NMJ formation or function causes neurological disorders including congenital myasthenic syndrome and myasthenia gravis . NMJ formation requires reciprocal interactions between nerve terminals and muscle cells . In anterograde signaling , nerve-derived agrin directs post-synaptic differentiation by interacting with muscle transmembrane receptors LRP4 and MuSK , which in turn activate downstream signaling events leading to AChR concentration at the NMJ ( McMahan , 1990; DeChiara et al . , 1996; Glass et al . , 1996; Weatherbee et al . , 2006; Kim et al . , 2008; Zhang et al . , 2008 ) . However , much less is known regarding retrograde mechanisms that control motor neuron survival and presynaptic differentiation . Wnt signaling has been implicated in NMJ formation in Caenorhabditis elegans , Drosophila as well as vertebrates ( Korkut and Budnik , 2009; Zhang et al . , 2009; Barik et al . , 2014b ) . β-Catenin ( Ctnnb1 ) is a central component of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway , regulating transcription by associating with TCF/LEF transcription factors ( MacDonald et al . , 2009 ) . It also regulates adhesion-dependent signaling by binding to cadherins and α-catenin ( Nelson and Nusse , 2004 ) . Intriguingly , when Ctnnb1 is mutated in muscle fibers , mutant mice die neonatally , with profound presynaptic deficits such as mislocation of phrenic nerve primary branches , reduced synaptic vesicles , and impaired neuromuscular transmission ( Li et al . , 2008 ) , suggesting that Ctnnb1 in muscle cells is necessary for presynaptic differentiation . In support of this notion are recent reports that expression of stable Ctnnb1 in muscle cells also impairs presynaptic differentiation in mutant mice ( Liu et al . , 2012; Wu et al . , 2012a ) . These observations suggest that Ctnnb1 in muscle is critical for a retrograde pathway to direct nerve terminal development . However , the underlying mechanism remains unclear . The interaction of cadherins of pre- and post-synaptic membranes has been shown to be important for synapse formation ( Bamji et al . , 2003; Bozdagi et al . , 2004; Prakash et al . , 2005 ) and synaptic plasticity ( Murase et al . , 2002; Schuman and Murase , 2003; Nuriya and Huganir , 2006 ) . NMDAR stimulation accumulates Ctnnb1 in spines , which in turn regulates induced endocytosis of N-cadherins ( Tai et al . , 2007 ) . These observations raise questions whether the muscle Ctnnb1 regulates presynaptic differentiation via cell adhesion-dependent signaling and/or gene-expression . In this paper , we determined which function of Ctnnb1 is required for NMJ formation by characterizing transgenic mice expressing wild-type or Ctnnb1 mutants that were impaired in transcriptional regulation or cell-adhesion signaling . Rescue experiments indicated a necessary role for the transcription activity of muscle Ctnnb1 in presynaptic differentiation . Our exploration of targets of Ctnnb1 as potential muscle-derived retrograde factors led to the identification of Slit2 , an environmental cue that repels or collapses neuronal axons ( Brose et al . , 1999; Kidd et al . , 1999 ) . Slit2 belongs to a family of large ECM ( extracellular matrix ) glycoproteins known to be chemorepellent for olfactory , motor , hippocampal , and retinal axons ( Nguyen Ba-Charvet et al . , 1999; Erskine et al . , 2000; Niclou et al . , 2000; Ringstedt et al . , 2000 ) . However , Slit2 was also shown to stimulate the formation of axon collateral branches by dorsal root ganglia neurons ( Wang et al . , 1999 ) and positively regulate motor axon fasciculation ( Jaworski and Tessier-Lavigne , 2012 ) . Slit2 was able to induce clusters of synaptophysin in cultured neurons , suggesting a synaptogenic function . Expression of Slit2 specifically in muscle fibers was able to rescue NMJ deficits in Ctnnb1-mutant mice . These observations demonstrate that Ctnnb1 regulates presynaptic differentiation by a transcription-dependent mechanism and identify Slit2 as a novel retrograde factor in NMJ formation . 
Force transduction at cell-cell adhesions regulates tissue development , maintenance and adaptation . We developed computational and experimental approaches to quantify , with both sub-cellular and multi-cellular resolution , the dynamics of force transmission in cell clusters . Applying this technology to spontaneously-forming adherent epithelial cell clusters , we found that basal force fluctuations were coupled to E-cadherin localization at the level of individual cell-cell junctions . At the multi-cellular scale , cell-cell force exchange depended on the cell position within a cluster , and was adaptive to reconfigurations due to cell divisions or positional rearrangements . Importantly , force transmission through a cell required coordinated modulation of cell-matrix adhesion and actomyosin contractility in the cell and its neighbors . These data provide insights into mechanisms that could control mechanical stress homeostasis in dynamic epithelial tissues , and highlight our methods as a resource for the study of mechanotransduction in cell-cell adhesions .  Tissues undergo continuous rearrangements that require tightly balanced exchanges of mechanical forces between individual cells through cadherin-mediated cell–cell junctions . The importance of mechanical coupling between cells has been documented for diverse multi-cellular processes , including tissue morphogenesis during development ( Mammoto and Ingber , 2010; Martin et al . , 2010; Rauzi et al . , 2010; Lecuit et al . , 2011; Weber et al . , 2012 ) , collective migration during wound healing ( Trepat et al . , 2009; Tambe et al . , 2011; Ng et al . , 2012 ) , epithelial and endothelial barrier functions ( Tzima et al . , 2005; Twiss et al . , 2012 ) , and cancer progression ( Friedl et al . , 2004; Bajpai et al . , 2009 ) . In all these processes , the spatiotemporal regulation of mechanical forces is essential for the maintenance of tissue integrity as well as for communication and coordination between cells . Nevertheless , it is yet unclear how the magnitude and length scale of cell–cell force transmission are modulated dynamically as a function of cell position and topological changes within a cellular ensemble . Moreover , as recent studies have begun to characterize the molecular basis of the mechano-responsiveness of the cadherin–catenin complex ( Gomez et al . , 2011; Leckband et al . , 2011 ) , it is important to understand how the recruitment and regulation of cadherin molecules at the adherens junctions are coupled to cell–cell force transmission . To address these questions , an assay is required that can measure cell–cell force transmission in situ and in time , which can be combined with high-resolution time-lapse imaging of protein recruitment and activity . We developed a method that utilizes high-resolution traction force microscopy ( TFM ) and time-lapse live cell microscopy to quantify cell–cell mechanical interactions in dynamic multi-cellular clusters , while maintaining the sub-cellular resolution needed to measure force exchange at the level of individual junctions . Our method expanded upon several pioneering studies , which inferred cell–cell force transmission from the regional imbalance of traction forces in cell pairs and three-cell clusters in linear configurations ( Liu et al . , 2010; Maruthamuthu et al . , 2011; McCain et al . , 2012; Tseng et al . , 2012 ) , by now providing the time and sub-cellular resolution needed to derive the spatiotemporal coordination of force exchanges in larger cell groups as well as the coupling of force and protein dynamics at individual adherens junctions . To achieve reconstruction of forces at individual cell–cell junctions and in cell clusters of generic configurations , we incorporated the thin-plate modeling approach of cells and finite element analysis of the plate deformation that was utilized by other studies to infer intercellular interactions in entire cell sheets ( Trepat et al . , 2009; Tambe et al . , 2011 , 2013; Hur et al . , 2012 ) . Using this assay , we quantitatively mapped the forces transmitted through individual cell–cell junctions of dynamic MCF10A epithelial cell clusters of various sizes and configurations over time . Our results revealed that the spatial distributions and dynamics of basal cell–cell force transmission correlated with morphogenetic events such as cell divisions . Along the cell junction , we showed with sub-interface resolution that the local mechanical stresses also correlated with localization of E-cadherin molecules . Expanding our approach to temporal force fluctuation analysis at the length scale of a cell , we found that force propagation through cells can be intercepted by cell anchorage to the extracellular matrix and by actomyosin contraction . Together these results provide a first glimpse of the dynamics of sub-cellular force exchanges that yield stress homeostasis in quiescent and proliferating tissues . 
The polyglutamine expansion in huntingtin protein causes Huntington’s disease . Here , we investigated structural and biochemical properties of huntingtin and the effect of the polyglutamine expansion using various biophysical experiments including circular dichroism , single-particle electron microscopy and cross-linking mass spectrometry . Huntingtin is likely composed of five distinct domains and adopts a spherical α-helical solenoid where the amino-terminal and carboxyl-terminal regions fold to contain a circumscribed central cavity . Interestingly , we showed that the polyglutamine expansion increases α-helical properties of huntingtin and affects the intramolecular interactions among the domains . Our work delineates the structural characteristics of full-length huntingtin , which are affected by the polyglutamine expansion , and provides an elegant solution to the apparent conundrum of how the extreme amino-terminal polyglutamine tract confers a novel property on huntingtin , causing the disease .  Huntingtin is the entire large protein product ( >350 kDa MW ) of the Huntingtin gene ( HTT previously HD ) . Huntingtin has a segment of polyglutamine near its amino terminus ( Amino-terminal ) that is encoded by a polymorphic CAG trinucleotide repeat . If expanded above 38-residues , this mutation causes Huntington’s disease ( HD ) , a dominant neurodegenerative disorder ( Huntington's Disease Collaborative Research Group , 1993 ) . The strong correlation between the size of the expanded repeat and the age at diagnosis of HD motor , cognitive and psychiatric symptoms shows that CAG repeat-size is the primary determinant of the rate of the disease progression ( Brinkman et al . , 1997; Snell et al . , 1993 ) . This biological relationship also provides a human patient-based rationale for delineating the HD disease-trigger in studies with an allelic series designed to determine the effects of progressively increasing the size of the mutation . Consistent with genetic studies in distinct CAG-expansion neurodegenerative disorders and CAG knock-in mice that replicate the HD mutation , the mechanism that triggers the disease process that leads to the characteristic vulnerability of striatal neurons in HD is thought to involve a novel gain of function that is conferred on mutant huntingtin by the expanded polyglutamine segment ( Gusella and MacDonald , 2000; Nucifora et al . , 2001; Trettel et al . , 2000 ) . By analogy with other members of the HEAT/HEAT-like ( Huntingtin , Elongation factor 3 , protein phosphatase 2A , Target of rapamycin 1 ) repeat family ( Andrade and Bork , 1995; Perry and Kleckner , 2003 ) , huntingtin is likely a HEAT domain solenoid that functions as a mechanical scaffold for multi-member complexes ( Grinthal et al . , 2010; Takano and Gusella , 2002 ) . Huntingtin’s large size and predicted predominant HEAT/HEAT-like repeat domain structure is well conserved through 500 million years of evolution ( Seong et al . , 2010 ) . The polyglutamine region is not conserved in some huntingtin orthologues ( Seong et al . , 2010 ) , implying a role as an extra feature that fine-tunes huntingtin structure and function . Indeed , testing this idea , we have previously demonstrated , with purified recombinant human huntingtins in a cell-free assay , that lengthening the polyglutamine tract quantitatively enhances the basal function of huntingtin in stimulating Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) histone methyltransferase ( Seong et al . , 2010 ) . The structures of smaller HEAT/HEAT-like repeat solenoid scaffold proteins , such as PR65/A and Importin β , have been solved to high-resolution , and each has been shown to assume a distinctive extended curvilinear shape determined by the specific stacking characteristics of its HEAT/HEAT-like repeats ( Cingolani et al . , 1999; Groves et al . , 1999 ) . The topology of the huntingtin solenoid is expected to reflect the specific stacking characteristics of α-helical HEAT/HEAT-like repeats that span the molecule . The shape imparted by intramolecular stacking cannot be predicted because of the idiosyncratic nature of HEAT/HEAT-like repeats , which are loosely conserved ~34 amino acid bipartite α-helical units ( Takano and Gusella , 2002 ) . Nevertheless this shape must enable modulation by the amino-terminal polyglutamine segment . It seems reasonable that this may involve some structural feature that is critical to huntingtin function . One possibility is structure-dependent post-translational modification . Human huntingtin is phosphorylated , at more than seventy modified serine , threonine and tyrosine residues ( Hornbeck et al . , 2012 ) . Indeed , a comparison of lines of transgenic modified HTT BAC mice has implicated unique amino-terminal serine phosphorylation in protection against deleterious effects of mutant huntingtin ( Gu et al . , 2009 ) and the polyglutamine expansion at the amino-terminal causes a trend of hypo-phosphorylation in all sites , including sites near the carboxyl-terminus ( Anne et al . , 2007; Schilling et al . , 2006; Warby et al . , 2005 ) , indirectly implying a long-range impact of the amino-terminal region on huntingtin structure and function . In order to solve the apparent puzzle of how huntingtin’s solenoid structure may enable quantitative or qualitative ( or both ) modulation of huntingtin function , according to the size of the amino-terminal polyglutamine tract , we have extended initial observations showing a likely flexible α-helical structure by conducting systematic biophysical and biochemical analyses of members of a panel of highly purified human recombinant huntingtins , with varied lengths of polyglutamine tracts ( Fodale et al . , 2014; Huang et al . , 2015; Li et al . , 2006 ) . 
NCOA4 is a selective cargo receptor for the autophagic turnover of ferritin , a process critical for regulation of intracellular iron bioavailability . However , how ferritinophagy flux is controlled and the roles of NCOA4 in iron-dependent processes are poorly understood . Through analysis of the NCOA4-FTH1 interaction , we demonstrate that direct association via a key surface arginine in FTH1 and a C-terminal element in NCOA4 is required for delivery of ferritin to the lysosome via autophagosomes . Moreover , NCOA4 abundance is under dual control via autophagy and the ubiquitin proteasome system . Ubiquitin-dependent NCOA4 turnover is promoted by excess iron and involves an iron-dependent interaction between NCOA4 and the HERC2 ubiquitin ligase . In zebrafish and cultured cells , NCOA4 plays an essential role in erythroid differentiation . This work reveals the molecular nature of the NCOA4-ferritin complex and explains how intracellular iron levels modulate NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy in cells and in an iron-dependent physiological setting .  Iron is essential for the survival of nearly all organisms as it serves as a cofactor for a host of biochemical processes including oxygen storage , oxidative phosphorylation , and enzymatic reactions required for cellular proliferation ( Pantopoulos et al . , 2012 ) . However , the levels of free iron in a cell must be tightly controlled to avoid the generation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) via the Fenton reaction ( Dixon and Stockwell , 2014 ) . As such , iron metabolism is a tightly regulated process controlled by a network of iron-dependent proteins ( Pantopoulos et al . , 2012 ) . The cell has evolved mechanisms whereby iron can be sequestered and released from protein complexes in response to changing iron levels ( Anderson et al . , 2012 ) . One such protein is ferritin , which forms a complex of 24 subunits ( consisting of a mixture of ferritin heavy and light chains , FTH1 and FTL , respectively ) capable of storing up to 4500 iron atoms ( Arosio et al . , 2009 ) . When iron levels in the cell are low , ferritin is degraded allowing the release of iron for use by the cell . Ferritin is degraded in the lysosome and recent evidence implicated autophagy , a conserved catabolic cellular pathway , in the ‘ferritinophagy’ process ( Radisky and Kaplan , 1998; Asano et al . , 2011 ) . Through quantitative proteomic analysis of purified autophagosomes , we recently identified NCOA4 as the selective autophagy receptor that targets ferritin to the autophagosome , providing the first mechanistic explanation of how ferritinophagy occurs ( Mancias et al . , 2014 ) . We further showed that NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy is important for maintaining cellular iron homeostasis . NCOA4 was subsequently identified as an ubiquitylation target when the VPS34 autophagy activator is inhibited and also was found to promote ferritinophagy ( Dowdle et al . , 2014 ) . Three central questions emerge from this work . First , what molecular determinants drive the pathway and are the interactions between NCOA4 and ferritin direct ? Interestingly , NCOA4 has been reported to bind FTH1 , but not FTL , in cell extracts ( Dowdle et al . , 2014 ) ; however , the biochemical basis of this specificity is unclear , especially given that FTH1 and FTL are 53% identical and 66% similar in primary sequence . In most cell types , ferritin complexes are composed of both heavy and light chains . The identification of point mutants that specifically abolish these interactions could facilitate a further dissection of NCOA4 function . Second , given that NCOA4 levels appear to control flux through the ferritinophagy pathway , what mechanisms control the abundance of NCOA4 ? We previously reported that NCOA4 levels are altered by intracellular iron status ( Mancias et al . , 2014 ) ; when iron levels are high , NCOA4 abundance is low , thereby promoting ferritin accumulation and iron capture . But when iron is low , NCOA4 levels increase to promote ferritinophagy . However , our understanding of the mechanisms underlying these processes is limited and is complicated by the fact that the pool of NCOA4 participating in targeting ferritin to autophagosomes is apparently degraded within lysosomes . Thus , understanding the mechanisms that control NCOA4 abundance could help unravel the physiological underpinnings of flux through the ferritinophagy pathway , with implications for understanding iron utilization . Our recent work revealed HERC2 , a large multi-domain homologous to E6AP carboxy terminus ( HECT ) E3 ubiquitin ligase , as an NCOA4-interacting protein ( Mancias et al . , 2014 ) . HERC2 is reported to associate with numerous proteins and likely has multiple ubiquitylation targets , including E6AP and proteins linked to DNA damage ( Bekker-Jensen et al . , 2010; Martinez-Noel et al . , 2012; Moroishi et al . , 2014; Galligan et al . , 2015 ) . Intriguingly , HERC2 associates with the SCFFBLX5 ubiquitin ligase ( Tan et al . , 2013 ) and has recently been implicated in the basal turnover of FBXL5 ( Moroishi et al . , 2014 ) , a key iron-sensing protein that promotes turnover of the ferritin translational repressor IRP2 ( Iron Regulatory Protein 2 , also known as IREB2 ) when iron is high ( Salahudeen et al . , 2009; Vashisht et al . , 2009 ) . However , the precise role that HERC2 , iron , and the ubiquitin system play in regulating NCOA4 , and how this is related to NCOA4 autophagic turnover during ferritinophagy remains unexplored . Third , what is the physiological role of NCOA4 in cellular processes that are highly dependent upon iron availability ? Initial links between NCOA4 and processes with a requirement for high iron availability come from expression studies where ncoa4 mRNA is high at sites of erythropoiesis during zebrafish development ( Weber et al . , 2005 ) . Moreover , recent transcriptomic analysis shows significant upregulation of NCOA4 at the orthochromatic erythroblast stage of erythroid differentiation in humans , the stage associated with massive heme and hemoglobin synthesis , a highly iron dependent process ( An et al . , 2014 ) . Prior studies have demonstrated defects in erythroid differentiation upon deletion of canonical autophagy genes ( Cao et al . , 2015 ) ; however , these studies focused on an inability to clear mitochondria during erythroid maturation due to dysfunctional mitophagy ( Mortensen et al . , 2010; Li-Harms et al . , 2015 ) . While it is clear that iron obtained via holo-transferrin endocytosis is used for heme synthesis during erythroid differentiation , there is debate as to the intracellular itinerary of this iron once liberated from transferrin ( Lane et al . , 2015 ) . There is evidence that transferrin-liberated endosomal iron is transferred directly to mitochondria ( Sheftel et al . , 2007 ) ; however , additional studies show that ferritin-sequestered iron is also utilized for heme synthesis ( Vaisman et al . , 1997 ) . Here , we use in-depth biochemical and cell culture studies , as well as the zebrafish system to dissect the roles of NCOA4 , Ferritin , and HERC2 in mediating ferritinophagy and the role of ferritinophagy in erythropoiesis . We show that NCOA4 interacts directly with FTH1 via a conserved NCOA4 C-terminal domain and a key conserved residue on FTH1 . Mutation at these binding sites abrogates binding in vivo and abolishes ferritinophagy . We show that the HERC2 ligase uses its ‘CUL7-homology domain’ to recognize NCOA4 under high iron conditions to mediate NCOA4 turnover via the ubiquitin-proteasome system , thereby reducing the steady-state NCOA4 levels and increasing ferritin for iron capture . Surprisingly , we find that this same C-terminal domain within NCOA4 binds iron and the iron-bound state of NCOA4 determines HERC2 binding , suggesting an iron-dependent switch in NCOA4 turnover . Finally , we show that NCOA4 is important for erythropoiesis in vivo given its role in mobilizing iron from ferritin for use in heme synthesis . This study establishes the importance of NCOA4 as a critical regulator of cellular and organismal iron metabolism and reveals the mechanistic underpinnings of its iron-dependent regulation . 
Higher-level cognition depends on the lateral prefrontal cortex ( LPFC ) , but its functional organization has remained elusive . An influential proposal is that the LPFC is organized hierarchically whereby progressively rostral areas of the LPFC process/represent increasingly abstract information facilitating efficient and flexible cognition . However , support for this theory has been limited . Here , human fMRI data revealed rostral/caudal gradients of abstraction in the LPFC . Dynamic causal modeling revealed asymmetrical LPFC interactions indicative of hierarchical processing . Contrary to dominant assumptions , the relative strength of efferent versus afferent connections positioned mid LPFC as the apex of the hierarchy . Furthermore , cognitive demands induced connectivity modulations towards mid LPFC consistent with a role in integrating information for control operations . Moreover , the strengths of these dynamics were related to trait-measured higher-level cognitive ability . Collectively , these results suggest that the LPFC is hierarchically organized with the mid LPFC positioned to synthesize abstract and concrete information to control behavior .  The prefrontal cortex ( PFC ) is central to higher-level cognition . Damage to the PFC produces severe deficits in goal-directed cognition ( Luria , 1966; Damasio and Anderson , 1993; Lhermitte , 1986 ) and neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the involvement of the PFC across a wide range of tasks ( Duncan and Owen , 2000; Niendam et al . , 2012 ) . Despite its ubiquitous influence , mechanistic insight into PFC function has remained difficult . Progress towards understanding PFC function has been made through the development of organizing principles that describe gradients of function across the full extent of PFC . A prominent organizing principle is that the rostral/caudal axis of the lateral PFC ( LPFC ) is structured according to the level of cognitive control ( Fuster , 1997; Koechlin et al . , 2003; Koechlin and Summerfield , 2007; Badre , 2008; Badre and D'Esposito , 2007; 2009 ) . Mounting evidence from neuroimaging and lesion studies suggests that progressively rostral areas perform progressively higher levels of cognitive control through processing increasingly abstract representations ( Koechlin et al . , 2003; Badre , 2008; Badre and D'Esposito , 2007; 2009; Koechlin and Jubault , 2006; Nee and Brown , 2012; 2013; Koechlin et al . , 1999; Bahlmann et al . , 2014; Azuar et al . , 2014 ) . This organization enables the LPFC to control behavior across multiple timescales including adapting actions according to the prevailing context , and aligning behaviors with longer-term goals and plans ( Fuster , 2001; 2008 ) . While differentiating the functional sensitivities of sub-regions of the LPFC is an important first step , mechanistic insight into how the LPFC supports goal-directed cognition requires understanding intercommunication among LPFC sub-regions . To this end , it has been proposed that the LPFC is organized hierarchically such that more rostral areas exert asymmetrically greater influence upon more caudal areas ( Badre and D'Esposito , 2009 ) . Hierarchical processing confers substantial computational efficiency and flexibility ( Botvinick and Weinstein , 2014; Duncan , 2013; Solway et al . , 2014 ) , and such processing in the LPFC could explain the massive propensity for higher-level cognition found in primates . However , data demonstrating functional hierarchical processing in the LPFC have been limited ( Koechlin et al . , 2003 ) and controversial ( Reynolds et al . , 2012; Crittenden and Duncan , 2014 ) . Furthermore , no data have linked hierarchical processing to its surmised cognitive advantages . Finally , although it has been widely assumed that the rostral-most areas of LPFC are situated at the apex of the hierarchy ( Koechlin and Summerfield , 2007; Badre and D'Esposito , 2009 ) , recent data call this assumption into question ( Goulas et al . , 2014 ) . Hence , understanding whether and how hierarchical processing occurs in the LPFC remains a significant barrier to modeling goal-directed cognition . Here , we examine how interactions within the LPFC support higher-level cognition . To do so , we devised a paradigm to engage the entire LPFC by orthogonally manipulating demands on stimulus domain and cognitive control ( Figure 1 ) . We began by confirming that the rostral/caudal axis of the LPFC operates according to abstraction principles by examining gradients of stimulus domain-generality/specificity , and temporal control over action . Next , we modeled interactions among LPFC sub-regions to examine whether and how cognitive control demands elicit asymmetrical influences indicative of hierarchical processing . Finally , we aimed to establish whether individual differences in hierarchical interactions predict trait-measured higher-level cognitive functioning , consistent with the presumed computational advantage of hierarchical processing . 10 . 7554/eLife . 12112 . 003Figure 1 . Experimental design . ( A ) The design orthogonally manipulated factors of Stimulus Domain ( verbal , spatial ) and two forms of cognitive control: Contextual Control ( low – Control , Delay; high – Restart , Dual ) and Temporal Control ( low – Control , Restart; high – Delay , Dual ) . These factors were fully crossed in a 2 x 2 x 2 design . ( B ) Cognitive control processes engaged by condition . ( C ) The basic task required participants to judge whether a stimulus followed the previous stimulus in a sequence . The sequence in the verbal task was the order of the letters in the word 'tablet . ' The sequence in the spatial task was a trace of the points of a star . The start of each sequence began with a decision regarding whether the currently viewed stimulus is the start of the sequence ( e . g . ‘t’ in the verbal task ) . ( D ) Factors were blocked with each block containing a basic task phase , a sub-task phase , a return trial , and a second basic task phase ( not depicted ) , for all but the Control blocks . Control blocks consisted only of the basic task phase extended to match the other conditions in duration . Colored frames indicated whether letters or locations were relevant for the block ( verbal – purple; spatial – orange in this example; verbal condition depicted ) . The basic task was cued by square frames . Other frames cued the different sub-task conditions . In the Delay condition ( circle frames ) , participants held in mind the place in the sequence across a distractor-filled delay . In the Restart condition ( diamond frames ) , participants started a new sequence . In the Dual condition ( cross frames ) , participants simultaneously started a new sequence , and maintained the place in the previous sequence . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 12112 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 12112 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Spatial task . Example blocks of the spatial task wherein participants decided whether the stimulus followed the preceding stimulus in a star trace ( Figure 1C ) . Details are otherwise identical to Figure 1 . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 12112 . 004 
Cortical expansion and folding are often linked to the evolution of higher intelligence , but molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying cortical folding remain poorly understood . The hominoid-specific gene TBC1D3 undergoes segmental duplications during hominoid evolution , but its role in brain development has not been explored . Here , we found that expression of TBC1D3 in ventricular cortical progenitors of mice via in utero electroporation caused delamination of ventricular radial glia cells ( vRGs ) and promoted generation of self-renewing basal progenitors with typical morphology of outer radial glia ( oRG ) , which are most abundant in primates . Furthermore , down-regulation of TBC1D3 in cultured human brain slices decreased generation of oRGs . Interestingly , localized oRG proliferation resulting from either in utero electroporation or transgenic expression of TBC1D3 , was often found to underlie cortical regions exhibiting folding . Thus , we have identified a hominoid gene that is required for oRG generation in regulating the cortical expansion and folding .  It is generally assumed that the expansion of the mammalian neocortex during evolution correlates with the increase in intelligence , and this process involves increased production of cortical neurons , resulting from an extended neurogenic period as well as increased proliferative ability of neural stem cells and progenitors ( Geschwind and Rakic , 2013; Lui et al . , 2011; Sun and Hevner , 2014; Zilles et al . , 2013 ) . To fit into a limited cranium , expanded cortical surfaces are folded to form gyri and sulci . Recent cross-species studies have shown the emergence of an outer subventricular zone ( OSVZ ) in the primate cortex , consisting of a massive pool of proliferating basal progenitors ( BPs ) and post-mitotic neurons ( Betizeau et al . , 2013; Fietz et al . , 2010; Hansen et al . , 2010; Reillo et al . , 2011; Smart et al . , 2002 ) . Unlike the neuroepithelia-derived ventricular radial glial cells , which undergo repeated and typically asymmetric cell division at the apical surface of the ventricular zone , the BPs , after delamination from the apical surface , translocate to the SVZ , where they exhibit symmetric or asymmetric divisions . In primates , the recently identified outer ( basal ) radial glia ( referred to as oRG or bRG ) and the intermediate progenitors ( IPs ) in the OSVZ , which can undergo multiple rounds of symmetric or asymmetric divisions ( Betizeau et al . , 2013; Hansen et al . , 2010 ) , are two major forms of BPs . By contrast , the IPs and minimal oRG cells in the mouse SVZ usually exhibit final division to generate a pair of post-mitotic neurons ( Shitamukai et al . , 2011; Wang et al . , 2011 ) . The radial and lateral expansion of BPs is thought to be a main cause of cortical folding of gyrencephalic species ( Fietz and Huttner , 2011; Fietz et al . , 2010; Hansen et al . , 2010; Lewitus et al . , 2014; Lui et al . , 2011; Reillo et al . , 2011 ) . In support of this hypothesis , forced expansion of BPs by down-regulating the DNA-associated protein Trnp1 or overexpressing cell cycle regulatory proteins Cdk4/Cyclin D1 resulted in gyrification of the cerebral cortex in naturally lissencephalic mouse or gyrencephalic ferret ( Nonaka-Kinoshita et al . , 2013; Stahl et al . , 2013 ) . Given that genetic differences between humans and other species are likely to be the causes of human-specific traits , including complexity of cortical morphology , extensive studies have been performed in comparing genes and genetic elements of different species of primates and mammals ( Arcila et al . , 2014; Fietz et al . , 2012; Florio et al . , 2015; Johnson et al . , 2009 , 2015; Kang et al . , 2011; Konopka et al . , 2012; Lui et al . , 2014; Miller et al . , 2014; O'Bleness et al . , 2012 ) . In particular , several recent studies have aimed to uncover the distinctive transcriptional signature of the expanded human OSVZ or BPs that reside there , leading to the identification of a group of genes highly expressed in the human OSVZ ( Miller et al . , 2014 ) , and human-specific orthologs preferentially expressed in human RGs ( Florio et al . , 2015; Lui et al . , 2014; Miller et al . , 2014; Pollen et al . , 2015; Thomsen et al . , 2016 ) . For examples , platelet-derived growth factor D is expressed specifically and functionally important in human but not mouse RGs ( Lui et al . , 2014 ) . A human lineage-specific Rho GTPase-activating protein could enhance the generation of IPs and cause neocortex expansion when expressed in the mouse brain ( Florio et al . , 2015 ) . Since cortical folding emerges progressively during primate evolution , multiple primate- and hominid-specific genes are likely to be involved in the emergence of cortical folding . Gene duplication may play critical roles in brain evolution ( Geschwind and Rakic , 2013 ) . In particular , duplication of specific genes in humans may be responsible for the marked increase in cortical folding . The TBC1D3 gene is derived from a segmental duplication , with multiple copies present in the human chromosome 17 and present in the chimpanzee genome as a single copy gene ( but absent in other species ) ( Hodzic et al . , 2006; Pei et al . , 2002; Perry et al . , 2008; Zody et al . , 2006 ) . Indeed , TBC1D3 corresponds to one of the core duplicons that have been implicated in the expansion of intrachromosomal segmental duplications during hominoid evolution ( Jiang et al . , 2007 ) . Because the timing of origination and amplification of the TBC1D3 gene is consistent with the evolutionary divergence of primates ( Perry et al . , 2008; Stahl and Wainszelbaum , 2009 ) , we decided to explore its role in brain development by expressing this gene in mice . We found TBC1D3 expression markedly elevated the generation and proliferation of BPs and resulted in extensive cortex folding in the mouse brain , and further delineated the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying its action . Furthermore , TBC1D3 is essential for the generation of BPs in cultured developing human brain slices . The transgenic mice generated in this study may provide a feasible model to link cortical folding to higher brain functions . 
Activation of systemic acquired resistance in plants is associated with transcriptome reprogramming induced by the unstable coactivator NPR1 . Immune-induced ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of NPR1 are thought to facilitate continuous delivery of active NPR1 to target promoters , thereby maximising gene expression . Because of this potentially costly sacrificial process , we investigated if ubiquitination of NPR1 plays transcriptional roles prior to its proteasomal turnover . Here we show ubiquitination of NPR1 is a progressive event in which initial modification by a Cullin-RING E3 ligase promotes its chromatin association and expression of target genes . Only when polyubiquitination of NPR1 is enhanced by the E4 ligase , UBE4 , it is targeted for proteasomal degradation . Conversely , ubiquitin ligase activities are opposed by UBP6/7 , two proteasome-associated deubiquitinases that enhance NPR1 longevity . Thus , immune-induced transcriptome reprogramming requires sequential actions of E3 and E4 ligases balanced by opposing deubiquitinases that fine-tune activity of NPR1 without strict requirement for its sacrificial turnover .  Immune responses must be tightly controlled to provide appropriate , efficient and timely resistance to pathogenic threats . A major hallmark of eukaryotic immune responses is dramatic reprogramming of the transcriptome to prioritise defences over other cellular functions . In plants transcriptional reprogramming is largely orchestrated by the immune hormone salicylic acid ( SA ) that accumulates upon recognition of biotrophic pathogens . SA not only induces resistance in infected local tissues , it is also required for establishment of systemic acquired resistance ( SAR ) , a form of induced resistance with broad-spectrum effectiveness that is long-lasting and protects the entire plant from future pathogen attack ( Spoel and Dong , 2012 ) . Establishment of SAR and associated transcriptome reprogramming are mediated by the transcriptional coactivator NPR1 ( nonexpressor of pathogenesis-related ( PR ) genes 1 ) . The majority of SA-induced genes are NPR1 dependent , indicating NPR1 is a master regulator of plant immunity ( Wang et al . , 2006 ) . Consequently , loss of NPR1 function results in severely immune-compromised plants unable to activate SAR . Since NPR1 exerts its activity in the nucleus ( Kinkema et al . , 2000 ) , controlling its nuclear entry provides a means to prevent spurious activation of immune responses . Indeed , in resting cells NPR1 is sequestered in the cytoplasm as a large redox-sensitive oligomer that is formed by intermolecular disulphide linkages between conserved cysteine residues ( Mou et al . , 2003 ) . NPR1 monomers that escape oligomerization and enter the nucleus are ubiquitinated by a Cullin-RING Ligase 3 ( CRL3 ) , a modular E3 ubiquitin ligase , resulting in their degradation by the 26S proteasome ( Spoel et al . , 2009 ) . Importantly , constitutive clearance of NPR1 from nuclei of resting cells by concerted action of CRL3 and the proteasome is necessary to prevent untimely activation of its target genes and associated autoimmunity . Upon activation of SAR , NPR1 is subject to an array of post-translational modifications . A combination of alterations in redox-based modifications , phosphorylation and SUMOylation of NPR1 result in the formation of a transactivation complex that induces the transcription of immune-responsive target genes ( Skelly et al . , 2016; Withers and Dong , 2016 ) . Subsequent to these post-translational control points , NPR1 becomes phosphorylated at Ser11 and Ser15 , which surprisingly results in recruitment of CRL3 followed by its degradation ( Spoel et al . , 2009 ) . Pharmacological inhibition of the proteasome , genetic mutation of CRL3 , and mutation of Ser11/15 all stabilised NPR1 protein , yet impaired the expression of SA-induced NPR1 target genes ( Spoel et al . , 2009 ) . These findings indicate that paradoxically , ubiquitination and degradation of NPR1 are required for the full expression of its target genes . We previously proposed a proteolysis-coupled transcription model in which activation of target gene transcription results in NPR1 being marked as ‘spent’ by Ser11/15 phosphorylation ( Spoel et al . , 2009 ) . SUMOylation of NPR1 was required for Ser11/15 phosphorylation and facilitates its interaction with other transcriptional activators ( Saleh et al . , 2015 ) , suggesting that NPR1 becomes inactivated only after it has initiated gene transcription . Removal of inactive NPR1 from target promoters may be necessary to allow binding of new active NPR1 protein that can reinitiate transcription , thereby correlating the rate of NPR1 turnover to the level of target gene expression ( Spoel et al . , 2009 ) . This type of transcriptional control by unstable ( co ) activators has also been reported in other eukaryotes , including for key transcriptional regulators such as the nutrient sensor GCN4 in yeast and the estrogen receptor ERα as well as oncogenic cMyc and SRC-3 activators in humans ( Kim et al . , 2003; Lipford et al . , 2005; Métivier et al . , 2003; Reid et al . , 2003; von der Lehr et al . , 2003; Wu et al . , 2007 ) . This suggests that the use of unstable transcriptional ( co ) activators may be an evolutionary conserved mechanism for fine-tuning gene expression ( Geng et al . , 2012; Kodadek et al . , 2006 ) . While transcription-coupled degradation of unstable ( co ) activators is an attractive model for controlling transcriptional outputs in eukaryotes , it is potentially also a costly sacrificial process . Therefore we explored the alternative possibility that prior to degradation , ubiquitination itself might act as a transcriptional signal . As chains of four or more ubiquitin molecules are thought to be necessary for recruitment of most substrates to the proteasome ( Thrower et al . , 2000 ) , it is plausible that processive ubiquitination could provide a window of opportunity for NPR1 to activate its target genes . In this study we demonstrate that the transcriptional activity of NPR1 is controlled by several ubiquitin chain modifying enzymes . Both stepwise ubiquitin chain extension and trimming activities contribute to the regulation of NPR1 target genes and establishment of plant immunity . Our findings imply that in eukaryotes transcriptional outputs of unstable ( co ) activators may not be fine-tuned by their proteasomal turnover per se but rather by conjugated ubiquitin chains of dynamic variable length . 
In Arabidopsis thaliana , abundant 24 nucleotide small interfering RNAs ( 24 nt siRNA ) guide the cytosine methylation and silencing of transposons and a subset of genes . 24 nt siRNA biogenesis requires nuclear RNA polymerase IV ( Pol IV ) , RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 2 ( RDR2 ) and DICER-like 3 ( DCL3 ) . However , siRNA precursors are mostly undefined . We identified Pol IV and RDR2-dependent RNAs ( P4R2 RNAs ) that accumulate in dcl3 mutants and are diced into 24 nt RNAs by DCL3 in vitro . P4R2 RNAs are mostly 26-45 nt and initiate with a purine adjacent to a pyrimidine , characteristics shared by Pol IV transcripts generated in vitro . RDR2 terminal transferase activity , also demonstrated in vitro , may account for occasional non-templated nucleotides at P4R2 RNA 3’ termini . The 24 nt siRNAs primarily correspond to the 5’ or 3’ ends of P4R2 RNAs , suggesting a model whereby siRNAs are generated from either end of P4R2 duplexes by single dicing events .  In plants , transposable elements , transgenes , repetitive sequences and endogenous genes can be transcriptionally silenced by RNA-directed DNA methylation ( Matzke and Mosher , 2014; Pikaard et al . , 2013; Wierzbicki , 2012; Zhang and Zhu , 2011 ) . In this process , 24 nucleotide small interfering RNAs ( 24 nt siRNAs ) bound to an Argonaute family protein , primarily Argonaute 4 ( AGO4; [Zilberman et al . , 2003] ) , guide the cytosine methylation and histone modification of corresponding DNA sequences , leading to chromatin states that are refractive to transcription by RNA polymerases I , II , or III ( Figure 1 ) . Approximately 4000–8000 loci in Arabidopsis thaliana give rise to clusters of 24 nt siRNAs , collectively accounting for more than 90% of the total small RNA pool ( Law et al . , 2013; Mosher et al . , 2008; Zhang et al . , 2007 ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 09591 . 003Figure 1 . Biogenesis of 24 nt siRNAs and their role in RNA-directed DNA methylation . A simplified cartoon of the RNA-directed DNA methylation pathway . Polymerase ( Pol ) IV and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( RDR2 ) physically associate and are required for the synthesis of double-stranded RNAs ( dsRNA ) that are diced by DICER-like 3 ( DCL3 ) into 24 nt siRNA duplexes . Upon loading into Argonaute 4 ( AGO4 ) , the siRNA-AGO4 complex finds its target sites by binding to Pol V transcripts and by interacting with the C-terminal domain ( CTD ) of the Pol V largest subunit . The cytosine methyltransferase DRM2 is ultimately recruited to Pol V-transcribed loci , resulting in de novo cytosine methylation in all sequence contexts ( CG , CHG and CHH; where H represents a nucleotide other than G ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09591 . 003 Three RNA polymerases are critical for production of non-coding RNAs guiding RNA-directed DNA methylation . These enzymes are nuclear RNA polymerase IV ( Pol IV; Herr et al . , 2005; Onodera et al . , 2005 ) , nuclear RNA polymerase V ( Pol V; Kanno et al . , 2005; Pontier et al . , 2005 ) and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 2 ( RDR2 ) ( Xie et al . , 2004 ) . Pol IV and Pol V are 12-subunit enzymes ( Ream et al . , 2009 ) that evolved as specialized forms of DNA-dependent RNA Pol II ( Haag et al . , 2014; Haag and Pikaard , 2011; He et al . , 2009; Huang et al . , 2009; Lahmy et al . , 2009; Ream et al . , 2009 ) . RDR2 is one of six single-subunit RNA-dependent RNA polymerases in Arabidopsis ( Wassenegger and Krczal , 2006; Xie et al . , 2004 ) . Pol IV and RDR2 are each essential for the biogenesis of 24 nt siRNAs and they physically associate in Arabidopsis and maize ( Haag et al . , 2012 , 2014; Law et al . , 2011 ) , suggesting that their activities are coupled for the production of double-stranded siRNA precursors from initial DNA templates . Pol V is not required for siRNA biogenesis at most loci ( Mosher et al . , 2008 ) but generates non-coding RNAs to which siRNA-AGO4 complexes bind ( Wierzbicki et al . , 2008; 2009 ) . The C-terminal domain of the Pol V largest subunit also interacts with AGO4 ( El-Shami et al . , 2007 ) . Together , these RNA and protein interactions bring AGO4 to the vicinity of the DNA transcribed by Pol V , allowing recruitment of DNA methylation and chromatin-modifying activities that bring about transcriptional gene silencing ( Figure 1 ) . Genetic evidence suggests that coordinated Pol IV and RDR2 transcription yields double-stranded RNAs ( dsRNAs ) that are then cleaved by DICER-like 3 ( DCL3 ) to produce 24 nt siRNA duplexes , one strand of which is incorporated into AGO4 ( Xie et al . , 2004; Zilberman et al . , 2003 ) or a closely related Argonaute protein ( Mallory and Vaucheret , 2010; Zheng et al . , 2007 ) . Because Pol IV localization is unaffected in rdr2 null mutants , but RDR2 is mis-localized in Pol IV null mutants ( Pontes et al . , 2006 ) , Pol IV has been thought to act first in the pathway , generating single-stranded RNAs that then serve as templates for second strand synthesis by RDR2 ( Pikaard , 2006 ) . Current models have also presumed that dsRNAs made by Pol IV and RDR2 are long , perfectly paired duplexes that can be diced into multiple siRNAs , as depicted in Figure 1 . Pol IV and RDR2 will synthesize short transcripts from oligonucleotide templates in vitro ( Haag et al . , 2012 ) , but the sizes of transcripts they are capable of generating is unclear , in vitro or in vivo . Recently , Pol IV and RDR2-dependent transcripts that accumulate in vivo in dcl2 dcl3 dcl4 ( dcl2/3/4 ) mutants were identified ( Li et al . , 2015 ) . In that study , RNAs were fragmented prior to sequencing and short sequence reads that overlapped were then assembled , computationally , into longer contiguous sequences . These analyses led to the conclusion that Pol IV and RDR2 generate transcripts that can be many hundreds of nucleotides in length , and thus large enough to encode multiple siRNAs , as in current models . Here , we present RNA blot hybridization , deep sequencing , in vitro transcription and in vitro DCL3 dicing results that yield a different interpretation , showing that Pol IV and RDR2 primarily generate dsRNAs shorter than 45 nucleotides . Based on sequence alignments and sequence motifs shared by Pol IV/RDR2-dependent RNAs ( P4R2 RNAs ) and siRNAs , we propose that siRNAs are typically generated by a single internal DCL3 cleavage event whose position is measured from either end of a short P4R2 RNA . 
Mature neural networks synchronize and integrate spatiotemporal activity patterns to support cognition . Emergence of these activity patterns and functions is believed to be developmentally regulated , but the postnatal time course for neural networks to perform complex computations remains unknown . We investigate the progression of large-scale synaptic and cellular activity patterns across development using high spatiotemporal resolution in vivo electrophysiology in immature mice . We reveal that mature cortical processes emerge rapidly and simultaneously after a discrete but volatile transition period at the beginning of the second postnatal week of rodent development . The transition is characterized by relative neural quiescence , after which spatially distributed , temporally precise , and internally organized activity occurs . We demonstrate a similar developmental trajectory in humans , suggesting an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that could facilitate a transition in network operation . We hypothesize that this transient quiescent period is a requisite for the subsequent emergence of coordinated cortical networks .  Multiple cognitive functions emerge rapidly during early development . Neural networks enable precise spatiotemporal coordination of synaptic and cellular activity in mature brain functions ( Fries et al . , 1997; Maingret et al . , 2016; Peyrache et al . , 2009; Khodagholy et al . , 2017 ) . How immature neural networks develop into their mature form needed for the complex computations underlying cognition remains poorly understood . The first organized and predominant pattern of neural activity that appears in cortical circuits across species is a spindle-like oscillation ( 10–20 Hz ) that occurs intermittently on a background of relative neural inactivity . Known as spindle bursts in rodents and delta brushes in humans , this immature network activity is commonly triggered by peripheral stimuli ( An et al . , 2014; Hanganu et al . , 2006; Khazipov et al . , 2004 ) . They demarcate cortical columns or pre-columns and have been linked to neuronal survival ( Golbs et al . , 2011 ) , establishing sensory ensembles , and critical period plasticity ( Khazipov et al . , 2004; Colonnese et al . , 2010; Khazipov et al . , 2013; Winnubst et al . , 2015 ) . Spindle bursts are characteristic of the first postnatal week of rodent development , and delta brushes disappear shortly after term in human neonates ( Torres and Anderson , 1985 ) , emphasizing their transient role in network maturation . In contrast , mature cortex exhibits perpetual , complex patterns of neural activity that appear and interact across a wide range of frequencies ( Tort et al . , 2009; Fujisawa and Buzsáki , 2011; Bosman et al . , 2012 ) . The organization of this activity creates precise spatiotemporal windows for neural synchronization , enabling plasticity processes and generation of neural sequences ( Masquelier et al . , 2009; Geisler et al . , 2010; Foster and Wilson , 2006 ) . Such network properties facilitate information processing , and resultant activity patterns have been causally linked to cognitive processes from stimulus perception to learning and memory ( Fries et al . , 1997; Maingret et al . , 2016; Peyrache et al . , 2009; Khodagholy et al . , 2017 ) . Understanding when and how these properties develop in the immature brain is critical given that delay or failure to express mature brain activity is a strong risk factor for subsequent impaired cognition ( Khazipov et al . , 2004; Anderson et al . , 1985; Seelke and Blumberg , 2008; Holmes and Lombroso , 1993 ) . We hypothesized that emergence of these advanced neural network properties could be heralded by the disappearance of immature activity patterns . During this developmental epoch , cortical microcircuits are still undergoing dramatic changes in anatomical connectivity ( Khazipov et al . , 2004 ) and functional connectivity between and within cortical layers is initiated ( Bureau et al . , 2004 ) in part through an abrupt increase in synaptogenesis in superficial layers ( Naskar et al . , 2019 ) . Robust GABA-mediated fast inhibition also appears ( Daw et al . , 2007; Goldberg et al . , 2011 ) as inhibitory network influences of interneurons increase ( Modol et al . , 2020; Tuncdemir et al . , 2016; Favuzzi et al . , 2019 ) . These local circuit changes are paralleled with the gradual ingrowth of subcortical neurotransmitters that assist in setting brain state changes . Together , such modifications could prime a shift in network operating mode , setting the stage for re-emergence of a different oscillation that occupies a similar frequency band , thalamocortical sleep spindles . In contrast to spindle bursts , these oscillations are characteristic of the offline state of non-rapid eye movement ( NREM ) sleep only , and they facilitate memory consolidation ( Maingret et al . , 2016; Latchoumane et al . , 2017 ) . To investigate this hypothesis , we examined neural network dynamics across early rodent and human development . We targeted epochs spanning disappearance of immature activity and emergence of mature sleep patterns in each species . For rodents , we developed conformable , minimally invasive , high-resolution electrocorticography arrays coupled with high-density implantable probes and recorded spontaneous in vivo electrophysiological patterns from unanesthetized mice across the first two postnatal weeks . This approach enabled simultaneous recording of large-scale synaptic and cellular activity without damaging fragile cortical circuits . We found that the transition between immature and mature network dynamics was characterized by unexpectedly decreased coordinated cellular and synaptic activity at the beginning of the second postnatal week . After this timepoint , precise neuronal synchronization and oscillatory coupling in space and time robustly emerged . Analysis of continuous electroencephalography ( EEG ) recordings from human subjects , 36–69 weeks post-gestation , revealed a similar developmental trajectory characterized by a transient decrease in neural activity prior to onset of spatiotemporal oscillatory coupling . Therefore , a shift from local , loosely correlated , prominently sensory-driven patterns to internally organized , spatially distributed , and temporally precise activity is preceded by a transient quiescent period . These findings suggest that mechanisms to developmentally regulate functional network capacity may be evolutionarily conserved and manifest on the systems level as similar , discrete states . 
The coexistence of multiple independently circulating strains in pathogen populations that undergo sexual recombination is a central question of epidemiology with profound implications for control . An agent-based model is developed that extends earlier ‘strain theory’ by addressing the var gene family of Plasmodium falciparum . The model explicitly considers the extensive diversity of multi-copy genes that undergo antigenic variation via sequential , mutually exclusive expression . It tracks the dynamics of all unique var repertoires in a population of hosts , and shows that even under high levels of sexual recombination , strain competition mediated through cross-immunity structures the parasite population into a subset of coexisting dominant repertoires of var genes whose degree of antigenic overlap depends on transmission intensity . Empirical comparison of patterns of genetic variation at antigenic and neutral sites supports this role for immune selection in structuring parasite diversity .  Many pathogen populations seem to be composed of several independent strains; this has important implications for disease surveillance and control , as well as for the identification of vaccine targets . In particular , the population genetic interactions between pathogen strains can have significant epidemiological consequences , influencing transmissibility , clinical immunity , and the duration and severity of infection . An extensive variety of microparasites have been studied in this context: protozoa , such as Plasmodium falciparum , Leishmania , and Trypanosoma brucei; viruses , such as Influenza , HIV and Dengue; and bacteria , such as E . coli , Bordetella spp . and Neisseria meningitides ( Tibayrenc et al . , 1990; Gupta et al . , 1994; Tibayrenc and Ayala , 2002 ) . The conceptual challenges and significant human health implications associated with the pathogen population structure have led to the establishment of several theories for why we observe this structure in nature ( Selander et al . , 1987; Tibayrenc et al . , 1990; Smith et al . , 1993; Gupta and Day , 1994a , 1994b; Gupta et al . , 1996; Tibayrenc , 1994 ) . In particular , while it would seem that sufficient out-crossing should always lead to random associations between alleles ( Tibayrenc et al . , 1990; Tibayrenc and Ayala , 2002 ) and preclude the persistence of ‘independently transmitted strains’ ( Tibayrenc , 1994 ) , mathematical models of competition between pathogen strains have demonstrated that immune selection can lead to the maintenance of discrete , non-overlapping , antigenic repertoires—even when antigenic variability is driven by several unlinked genes that undergo recombination ( Gupta et al . , 1996; Gupta and Anderson , 1999 ) . An inherent challenge in testing ‘strain theory’ is to determine whether observed empirical patterns in pathogen population structure result from immune selection , or alternatively , from simple demographic processes ( i . e . , uneven relatedness among individuals in the pathogen population that can result from random genetic drift , particularly within the complex context of transmission dynamics ) ( Buckee et al . , 2008 , 2011 ) . P . falciparum is responsible for the deadliest type of malaria in humans . The complexities of its population genetics , in terms of the variable and often enormous levels of sequence variation observed at antigenic sites within local populations , are intimately tied to both its pathology and its ability to escape immune detection . While this genetic complexity provides significant challenges to malaria research and control , it also provides an opportunity to extend existing strain theory in a way that can be tested empirically . Specifically , an important extension of earlier strain theory is to consider the effects of immune selection in populations of pathogens whose antigen-encoding loci are: ( a ) multi-copy and recombining ( i . e . , located on different chromosomes of a haploid genome ) , and ( b ) undergoing antigenic variation via sequential , mutually exclusive expression within an infected host . It is not clear whether a stable strain structure would emerge under the sequential expression of multi-copy genes . Consideration of this type of system provides a more complete framework for understanding antigenic structure and its epidemiological consequences in a broader variety of pathogens; it also offers the opportunity to distinguish the effects of immune selection from those of neutral demographic forces , providing testable predictions for these two alternative mechanisms . We describe an agent-based model that extends strain theory to address the effect of immune selection acting on multi-copy antigen genes; we use the var gene family of P . falciparum as the basis for this model . The var genes encode P . falciparum erythrocyte membrane protein 1 ( PfEMP1 ) —the major surface antigen of the parasite's blood stages that binds to host endothelial cell receptors to allow the parasite to sequester within various host tissues ( Miller et al . , 2002; Scherf et al . , 2008 ) . Var genes are composed of multiple Duffy-binding-like ( DBL ) and cysteine-interdomain-rich ( CIDR ) domains that encode binding functions for specific endothelial receptors . DBLα , is the only domain found in nearly all var genes ( Miller et al . , 2002 ) , and hence is the most informative molecular marker of var gene diversity . Each parasite genome has up to 60 var genes , and differential sequential expression of these genes allows the parasite to evade the host immune response and establish a chronic infection . This clonal antigenic variation sensu stricto ( Miller et al . , 2002; Scherf et al . , 2008 ) extends the duration of infection to facilitate transmission to the mosquito . Not only do var genes influence transmission , but specific var genes are associated with severe malarial disease and specific PfEMP1 binding phenotypes ( Deitsch et al . , 2009; Chan et al . , 2012; Claessens et al . , 2012; Lavstsen et al . , 2012; Warimwe et al . , 2012 ) . Population studies have shown that individual P . falciparum genomes have distinct repertoires of var genes ( Barry et al . , 2007; Scherf et al . , 2008; Chen et al . , 2011 ) that extensively recombine ( Freitas-Junior et al . , 2000; Taylor et al . , 2000 ) during sexual recombination in the mosquito ( Paul et al . , 1995 ) . The immense sequence diversity observed among var genes and var repertoires has been attributed to high rates of meiotic ( and possibly also mitotic ) recombination . These high rates of recombination presumably allow for very low linkage disequilibrium among var loci . Our modeling framework considers the dynamics shaping the enormous potential diversity of genomic repertoires of var genes by tracking all possible var repertoires , given a diverse pool of genetic variants . We explore whether structured parasite populations resulting from the selection pressures exerted by competition among distinct var repertoires for hosts , mediated by cross-immunity , can emerge . 
The deamidase OspI from enteric bacteria Shigella flexneri deamidates a glutamine residue in the host ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UBC13 and converts it to glutamate ( Q100E ) . Consequently , its polyubiquitination activity in complex with the RING-finger ubiquitin ligase TRAF6 and the downstream NF-κB inflammatory response is silenced . The precise role of deamidation in silencing the UBC13/TRAF6 complex is unknown . We report that deamidation inhibits the interaction between UBC13 and TRAF6 RING-domain ( TRAF6RING ) by perturbing both the native and transient interactions . Deamidation creates a new intramolecular salt-bridge in UBC13 that competes with a critical intermolecular salt-bridge at the native UBC13/TRAF6RING interface . Moreover , the salt-bridge competition prevents transient interactions necessary to form a typical UBC13/RING complex . Repulsion between E100 and the negatively charged surface of RING also prevents transient interactions in the UBC13/RING complex . Our findings highlight a mechanism wherein a post-translational modification perturbs the conformation and stability of transient complexes to inhibit protein-protein association .  Several bacterial pathogens secrete effector proteins that inhibit or co-opt the Ubiquitin ( Ub ) pathway to suppress the immune response of the host cell ( Ashida et al . , 2014 ) . The human pathogenic bacteria Shigella flexneri inactivates the host inflammatory Nf-κB signaling , responsible for inducing inflammatory cytokine responses during pathogen invasion ( Sanada et al . , 2012 ) . In the early events of interleukin-dependent activation of Nf-κB signaling , the Ub-conjugating enzyme UBC13 , and the Ub-ligase TRAF6 function together to synthesize both unanchored polyubiquitin chains , and anchored polyubiquitin chains on TRAF6 and its substrate NEMO ( Chen , 2005 ) . These chains serve as a scaffold to bring together TAK1/2 and IKK kinases , eventually leading to phosphorylation and activation of the IKK kinases , IκB degradation and nuclear translocation of transcription factor Nf-κB . To inactivate Nf-κB signaling , Shigella flexneri secretes a Type III effector called OspI , which functions as a deamidase ( Sanada et al . , 2012 ) . OspI specifically targets a glutamine residue in UBC13 and converts it to glutamate ( Q100E ) . Ubiquitination reactions of TRAF6 either with UBC13 in the presence of OspI or with mutant Q100E-UBC13 ( dUBC13 ) show a significant drop in polyubiquitination activity ( Sanada et al . , 2012 ) . However , the mechanism underlying inhibition of polyubiquitination by deamidation of UBC13 remains unclear . Ubiquitination is a eukaryotic post-translational modification ( Komander and Rape , 2012 ) , wherein the last glycine residue in the C-terminal tail of Ubiquitin ( Ub ) is activated and covalently attached to a substrate lysine residue . Ubiquitination involves three steps: an initial activation and thioester conjugation by the Ubiquitin-activating enzyme ( E1 ) , followed by the thioester conjugation to the Ubiquitin-conjugating ( E2 ) enzymes , and a final step in which the Ub is covalently attached to the substrate amino group . The last step is typically catalyzed by a class of Ubiquitin ligases ( E3 ) , which contain either a RING ( Really Interesting New Gene ) -finger domain , U-box domain or HECT domain ( Metzger et al . , 2012 ) . The RING-finger/U-box domain stabilizes a catalytic-closed conformation of the flexible E2 ~Ub species and drastically enhances the rate of Ub conjugation to substrates ( Dou et al . , 2012; Plechanovová et al . , 2012; Pruneda et al . , 2012 ) . The E2 UBC13 functions with several RING-finger E3s like TRAF6 to synthesize K63-linked poly-Ub chains that function to activate DNA repair or immune response ( Fukushima et al . , 2007 ) . Apart from the E3s , UBC13 also binds a co-factor MMS2 , which does not activate UBC13 but maintains the linkage specificity of the poly-Ub chains synthesized by UBC13 ( Branigan et al . , 2015 ) . In this study , we have investigated the mechanisms underlying the inactivation of UBC13 upon deamidation using NMR spectroscopy , molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations , and in-vitro ubiquitination assays . We report that deamidation weakens the non-covalent interaction of UBC13 with RING-finger domain of TRAF6 ( TRAF6RING ) , without perturbing UBC13 structure or the intrinsic enzymatic activity of UBC13 . However , the underlying cause of reduced interaction is nonintuitive since Q100 is in the vicinity of UBC13/TRAF6RING interface but does not form any contact with the TRAF6RING . Further studies showed that deamidation disrupts the interaction between UBC13 and TRAF6RING by three mechanisms: i ) A new intramolecular R14/E100 salt-bridge appears in dUBC13 , which competes with a critical intermolecular salt-bridge in the native complex , ii ) the salt-bridge competition also perturbs the UBC13/TRAF6RING transient complexes to inhibit association , and iii ) transient repulsion between the negatively charged E100 and the negatively charged interface of TRAF6RING reduces association between UBC13 and TRAF6RING . The effect of each mechanism on the binding was confirmed by binding studies using appropriate substitutions in either UBC13 or TRAF6RING . The impact of deamidation on transient interactions was also observed using another RING domain from RNF38 , indicating that the mechanism could be ubiquitous for UBC13/RING complexes . Our study highlights that deamidation of residues that do not directly participate in the E2/E3 interaction but are close to the interface can effectively modulate the interaction by perturbing the native and transient intermolecular contacts . The mechanism of regulating protein-protein transient interactions by post-translational modifications could be at play in other quintessential signaling pathways . 
Bidirectional manipulations – activation and inactivation – are widely used to identify the functions supported by specific cortical interneuron types . Implicit in much of this work is the notion that tonic activation and inactivation will both produce valid , internally consistent insights into interneurons’ computational roles . Here , using single-unit recordings in auditory cortex of awake mice , we show that this may not generally hold true . Optogenetically manipulating somatostatin-positive ( Sst+ ) or parvalbumin-positive ( Pvalb+ ) interneurons while recording tone-responses showed that Sst+ inactivation increased response gain , while Pvalb+ inactivation weakened tuning and decreased information transfer , implying that these neurons support delineable computational functions . But activating Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons revealed no such differences . We used a simple network model to understand this asymmetry , and showed how relatively small changes in key parameters , such as spontaneous activity or strength of the light manipulation , determined whether activation and inactivation would produce consistent or paradoxical conclusions regarding interneurons’ computational functions .  Throughout the neocortex , inhibition shapes the gain and tuning of sensory responses ( Kyriazi et al . , 1996; Tsumoto and Sato , 1985; Wang et al . , 2000 ) , controls the precise timing of evoked action potentials ( Akiyama et al . , 2004; Gabernet et al . , 2005; Hasenstaub et al . , 2005; Poo and Isaacson , 2009; Wehr and Zador , 2003 ) , and can coordinate rhythmic activity , which gates sensory responses and modulates information processing ( Cardin et al . , 2009; Deans et al . , 2001; Hasenstaub et al . , 2005; Sohal et al . , 2009 ) . Although they comprise a minority of cells in the cortex , the GABAergic interneurons that provide this inhibition are strikingly diverse ( rev . [Petilla Interneuron Nomenclature et al . , 2008] ) : unique combinations of gene expression , electrophysiological properties , morphology , and connectivity define multiple interneuron types , and likely allow each interneuron type to exert a unique mode of control over cortical function . A longstanding goal in sensory neuroscience has been to establish how , if at all , interneuron types differ in their contributions to normal cortical function . However , isolating each subtype to causally determine its contributions to cortical processing has been hindered by the limited repertoire of techniques available . Recent advances in molecular techniques , such as optogenetics ( Boyden et al . , 2005; Zhang et al . , 2011 ) , chemogenetics ( Armbruster et al . , 2007 ) , and more recently magnetogenetics ( Wheeler et al . , 2016 ) , have transcended traditional methods of probing cell function , enabling reversible and selective activation or inactivation of interneuron firing in vivo . These tools have been used extensively to identify the particular functions each interneuron subtype serves within the cortex ( Adesnik et al . , 2012; Aizenberg et al . , 2015; Atallah et al . , 2012; Cardin et al . , 2009; Cottam et al . , 2013; Lee et al . , 2012; Natan et al . , 2015; Seybold et al . , 2015; Sohal et al . , 2009; Wilson et al . , 2012; Xu et al . , 2013 ) . An implicit assumption underlying much of this work is that one can directly read out a cell type’s function , and infer its specialized operations , by tonically modulating its firing down or up: in other words , that the response features or computations weakened by inactivating a cell population are specifically those that the cell population normally supports , that these features will be strengthened when the same population is activated , and that the natural differences in cortical function between cell populations may be read out , and interpreted , using these same strategies . Can the abundance of recent causal data be interpreted in such a straightforward way ? Here , in line with the broader goal of establishing the ways in which we can use causal strategies to gain insight into interneuron function , we tested this assumption by manipulating either of the two main families of cortical interneurons – somatostatin-positive ( Sst+ ) or parvalbumin-positive ( Pvalb+ ) interneurons – while recording neural responses to tones in the auditory cortex of awake mice . We found that inactivation of Sst+ interneurons increased response gain , while inactivation of Pvalb+ interneurons weakened tuning and decreased information transfer , implying that these two neuron types support specific , separable functions in the auditory cortex . Yet activating Sst+ and Pvalb+ interneurons revealed no such differences . We used a simple feedforward model to understand this asymmetry , and found that relatively small changes in key parameters , such as baseline activity , neural thresholds , or the strength of the light manipulation , determined whether activation and inactivation would produce internally consistent conclusions regarding interneurons’ computational functions . This implies that seemingly minor experimental details can qualitatively change the readout of a neural population’s role in computation , and that the conclusions we draw regarding neuronal function can be influenced , even distorted , by the precise way in which the neuronal populations are manipulated . 
Cognitive functions such as working memory ( WM ) are emergent properties of large-scale network interactions . Synchronisation of oscillatory activity might contribute to WM by enabling the coordination of long-range processes . However , causal evidence for the way oscillatory activity shapes network dynamics and behavior in humans is limited . Here we applied transcranial alternating current stimulation ( tACS ) to exogenously modulate oscillatory activity in a right frontoparietal network that supports WM . Externally induced synchronization improved performance when cognitive demands were high . Simultaneously collected fMRI data reveals tACS effects dependent on the relative phase of the stimulation and the internal cognitive processing state . Specifically , synchronous tACS during the verbal WM task increased parietal activity , which correlated with behavioral performance . Furthermore , functional connectivity results indicate that the relative phase of frontoparietal stimulation influences information flow within the WM network . Overall , our findings demonstrate a link between behavioral performance in a demanding WM task and large-scale brain synchronization .  Cognitive processes depend on coordinated interactions among large-scale distributed brain networks . Flexible and rapid propagation of information across distant brain regions is necessary to support these functions . A prominent hypothesis is that information exchange within and between networks occurs through the oscillatory synchronization of neuronal activity , such that synchronous neuronal firing binds neurons into ensembles engaged in specific computational functions ( Varela et al . , 2001; Fries , 2005; Womelsdorf et al . , 2007; Fries , 2015; Parkin et al . , 2015 ) . Rhythmic synchrony increases network efficiency , a process thought to be particularly relevant for demanding cognitive processes such as working memory ( WM ) ( Fries , 2005; Deco et al . , 2011; Fell and Axmacher , 2011; Fries , 2015; Constantinidis and Klingberg , 2016 ) . Frontal and parietal brain regions support WM ( Cohen et al . , 1997; Prabhakaran et al . , 2000; Pessoa et al . , 2002; Todd and Marois , 2004 ) . Oscillatory activity in the theta range ( 4–8 Hz ) appears to organize local neuronal ensembles across distant regions during WM processes ( Buzsáki , 1996; Sarnthein et al . , 1998; Rutishauser et al . , 2010 ) . Theta power increases during complex manipulations of items in WM ( Sauseng et al . , 2005 ) , with increasing memory load ( Jensen and Tesche , 2002; Payne and Kounios , 2009 ) , and is correlated with WM performance ( Jacobs et al . , 2006; Fuentemilla et al . , 2010 ) . Moreover , the relative phases of these oscillations influence encoding and retrieval success ( Rizzuto et al . , 2006 ) . For example , frontoparietal theta synchrony with ~0° phase lag is associated with the maintenance and manipulation of information in WM ( Sauseng et al . , 2005; Polanía et al . , 2012 ) . With the aim of providing causal evidence for the role of oscillatory synchronization during demanding WM performance , as well as to investigate the underlying neural mechanisms by which frontoparietal phase synchronization influences verbal WM , we conducted two experiments using transcranial alternating current stimulation ( tACS ) to selectively entrain endogenous brain rhythms ( Antal and Paulus , 2013 ) . In- and anti-phase theta frequency ( 6 Hz ) stimulation was applied across two key nodes of the right frontoparietal network: the middle frontal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule . Similar tACS stimulation has previously been shown to produce phase-dependent modulations of WM performance ( Polanía et al . , 2012 ) . In this study , we conducted two complementary experimental approaches . In Experiment 1 we used conventional continuous theta stimulation to investigate the role of frontoparietal phase synchronization on cognitive performance . Cognitive demands were varied by using a combination of choice reaction and N-back tasks of increasing difficulty . This allowed us to test the prediction that tACS effects would only be seen when cognitive demands were high . The right hemisphere was stimulated because increasing demand in verbal N-back conditions was associated with stronger activity and effective connectivity within the right hemisphere WM network ( Fedorenko et al . , 2013; Dima et al . , 2014 ) , as well as a more pronounced effect of tACS on WM performance ( Jaušovec et al . , 2014 ) . In Experiment 2 we investigated the neurobiological substrate of the phase dependent effects of tACS . Our fMRI-tACS experimental design used short trains of tACS that avoid aftereffects of the stimulation ( Vossen et al . , 2015 ) whilst maximizing power to detect changes in the blood oxygen level-dependent ( BOLD ) signal . Functional ( f ) MRI is well suited to this purpose because BOLD: ( 1 ) provides a measurement of brain activity during tACS without complex artifacts that can severely contaminate traditional electroencephalography ( EEG ) and magnetoencephalography ( MEG ) recordings ( Cabral-Calderin et al . , 2016; Vosskuhl et al . , 2016; Noury et al . , 2016 ) ; and ( 2 ) is unaffected by the phase of the applied stimulation . We tested the following hypotheses: ( 1 ) behavioral WM performance is enhanced by entraining synchronous activity within a right frontoparietal network activated by WM demands; ( 2 ) regional brain activity in this frontoparietal network is modulated in a phase dependent manner; ( 3 ) changes in BOLD induced by phase-dependent network stimulation correlate with behavioral performance; ( 4 ) functional connectivity across distant brain regions is modulated in a phase-dependent manner , in agreement with computational and empirical evidence that phase synchronization enables flexible reconfiguration of information flow between brain areas ( Womelsdorf et al . , 2007; Akam and Kullmann , 2014 ) . We found that synchronous ( in-phase ) stimulation caused an improvement in performance and led to increased frontoparietal activity when cognitive demands were high . These results show that external manipulations of large-scale brain synchronization can be used to shape activity and connectivity within brain networks , and those modulations are detectable using fMRI . We additionally demonstrate the important influence of underlying cognitive demand on the neural effects of tACS . 
Embryonic polarity of invertebrates , amphibians and fish is specified largely by maternal determinants , which fixes cell fates early in development . In contrast , amniote embryos remain plastic and can form multiple individuals until gastrulation . How is their polarity determined ? In the chick embryo , the earliest known factor is cVg1 ( homologous to mammalian growth differentiation factor 1 , GDF1 ) , a transforming growth factor beta ( TGFβ ) signal expressed posteriorly before gastrulation . A molecular screen to find upstream regulators of cVg1 in normal embryos and in embryos manipulated to form twins now uncovers the transcription factor Pitx2 as a candidate . We show that Pitx2 is essential for axis formation , and that it acts as a direct regulator of cVg1 expression by binding to enhancers within neighbouring genes . Pitx2 , Vg1/GDF1 and Nodal are also key actors in left–right asymmetry , suggesting that the same ancient polarity determination mechanism has been co-opted to different functions during evolution .  In most invertebrates and anamniote vertebrates ( fishes and amphibians ) , embryonic polarity is first established by localisation of maternal determinants in the cytoplasm and/or cortex of the fertilised egg . This generates differences between the blastomeres that will form by cell division from the egg , and which will culminate in specifying the orientation of the embryonic axes ( Wilson , 1898 ) . Separation of the first two blastomeres can lead to twinning: the formation of genetically identical , complete individuals ( Driesch , 1892 ) . Separation of blastomeres after the four-cell stage , however , does not generate twins; in most cases it interferes with development of even a single embryo owing to the removal of important determinants that have by then segregated to different cells . This is known as the mosaic mode of development . Among the vertebrates , amniotes ( birds and many mammals , and possibly also reptiles ) have a remarkably extended capacity to give rise to twins . Some species of the armadillo genus Dasypus generate quadruplets or octuplets from a single fertilisation event , as a result of two or more sequential ‘splitting’ events of the embryo at a stage when it is already highly multicellular ( Newman and Patterson , 1910; Loughry et al . , 1998; Enders , 2002; Eakin and Behringer , 2004 ) . Conjoined ( ‘Siamese’ ) twins occur in mammals including humans ( Chai and Crary , 1971; Vanderzon et al . , 1998; Kaufman , 2004 ) and are also seen in reptiles ( Cunningham , 1937 ) and birds ( Ulshafer and Clavert , 1979 ) ; most of these are thought to arise from splitting of the embryo relatively late in development ( Kaufman , 2004 ) . Perhaps the most dramatic example is seen in the chick , where cutting an embryo into fragments at the blastoderm stage ( when the embryo contains as many as 20 , 000–50 , 000 cells ) can lead to each fragment generating a complete embryo; up to eight embryos have been generated from a single blastoderm by experimental splitting , right up to the time of appearance of the primitive streak ( Lutz , 1949; Spratt and Haas , 1960 ) . The ability of higher vertebrate embryos to retain a regulative model of development until such a late stage strongly suggests that localisation of maternally inherited determinants is not an essential component of the mechanisms specifying embryo polarity ( Stern and Downs , 2012 ) . Moreover , since a single blastoderm can generate multiple embryos , mechanisms must exist that suppress this ability in regions of the embryo that do not normally initiate axis formation ( Bertocchini and Stern , 2002; Bertocchini et al . , 2004 ) . In chick embryos , the earliest symmetry breaking event known is the localised expression of cVg1 , the chick orthologue of mammalian growth differentiation factor 1 ( GDF1 ) —a member of the transforming growth factor beta ( TGFβ ) superfamily of secreted proteins—encoding a Nodal/Activin-type molecule that signals through Smad2/3 ( Weeks and Melton , 1987; Thomsen and Melton , 1993; Kessler and Melton , 1995; Seleiro et al . , 1996; Shah et al . , 1997; Kessler , 2004; Birsoy et al . , 2006; Chen et al . , 2006; Andersson et al . , 2007 ) . Before primitive streak stages , cVg1 is expressed in the posterior marginal zone ( PMZ ) , an extraembryonic region adjacent to where the primitive streak will form; misexpression of cVg1 in other ( anterior or lateral ) parts of the marginal zone is sufficient to induce a complete axis from adjacent embryonic cells ( Seleiro et al . , 1996; Shah et al . , 1997; Skromne and Stern , 2001 , 2002 ) . The mechanisms that position cVg1 in the PMZ are unknown . Moreover , when a blastoderm is cut in half at right angles to the future primitive streak axis , cVg1 expression spontaneously initiates in the marginal zone adjacent to the cut edge , in either the right or left side at equal frequency , foreshadowing the appearance of the primitive streak a few hours later ( Bertocchini et al . , 2004 ) . This observation shows that the mechanisms that position cVg1 are active in the blastoderm stage embryo . Here we take advantage of these observations to design a molecular screen for new genes involved in the earliest stages of specifying embryo polarity; together with bioinformatic analysis and embryological experiments we identify the transcription factor Pitx2 as a direct and essential regulator of cVg1 expression both during normal development and in embryonic regulation ( induced twinning ) . 
Temporal experience of odor gradients is important in spatial orientation of animals . The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster exhibits robust odor-guided behaviors in an odor gradient field . In order to investigate how early olfactory circuits process temporal variation of olfactory stimuli , we subjected flies to precisely defined odor concentration waveforms and examined spike patterns of olfactory sensory neurons ( OSNs ) and projection neurons ( PNs ) . We found a significant temporal transformation between OSN and PN spike patterns , manifested by the PN output strongly signaling the OSN spike rate and its rate of change . A simple two-dimensional model admitting the OSN spike rate and its rate of change as inputs closely predicted the PN output . When cascaded with the rate-of-change encoding by OSNs , PNs primarily signal the acceleration and the rate of change of dynamic odor stimuli to higher brain centers , thereby enabling animals to reliably respond to the onsets of odor concentrations .  Odor distribution in nature is intermittent and dynamic ( Murlis et al . , 1992; Vickers et al . , 2001 ) , and animals have evolved the ability to detect and respond to temporal variation of odor stimuli ( David et al . , 1983; Thesen et al . , 1993; Vickers et al . , 2001; Porter et al . , 2007; Semmelhack and Wang , 2009; Kato et al . , 2014 ) . In one of the most sophisticated examples , Drosophila larvae with only a single functional olfactory sensory neuron ( OSN ) are capable of moving toward a droplet of an attractive odor by actively orienting themselves ( Louis et al . , 2008 ) . Similarly , adult fruit flies exhibit robust odor-guided behaviors such as turning upwind in flight upon contact with an attractive odor plume ( Budick and Dickinson , 2006 ) and staying within a specific odor zone ( Semmelhack and Wang , 2009 ) . In order to enable such odor-guided tasks , it is essential for any olfactory system to process time-varying features of olfactory stimuli and supply behaviorally relevant information to higher brain centers . Several recent studies have investigated how dynamic olfactory stimuli are processed in insect early olfactory systems ( systems consisting principally of OSNs and projection neurons [PNs] ) and observed significant temporal processing of odor signals ( Bhandawat et al . , 2007; Geffen et al . , 2009; Kim et al . , 2011; Nagel and Wilson , 2011; Martelli et al . , 2013 ) . Most of these studies employed a simple odor delivery system that generated step-pulse-like odor stimuli without directly monitoring the actual odor concentration levels . For a rigorous understanding of sensory processing , however , it is essential to precisely measure the input stimuli and systematically explore the input space , as has been successfully done in the field of vision and audition ( Wu et al . , 2006 ) . Moreover , natural odor plumes are encountered in various spatiotemporal patterns , and their dynamics and statistics can influence the neural encoding mechanism ( Brenner et al . , 2000; Vickers et al . , 2001 ) . In Drosophila , OSNs expressing the same receptors connect with PNs in one of roughly 50 spherical compartments , termed olfactory glomeruli , which constitute a deutocerebral neuropil called the antennal lobe . PNs subsequently relay olfactory information to higher brain centers such as the mushroom body and the lateral horn ( Stocker et al . , 1990 ) . Two recent studies independently reported that Drosophila OSNs encode not only the odor concentration but also its rate of change as a function of time ( Kim et al . , 2011; Nagel and Wilson , 2011 ) . Building on this recent advance , we asked how PNs further contribute to creating internal representations of dynamic olfactory environments . We tested OSNs and PNs with short plume-like odor stimuli in a variety of settings and analyzed the correlation structure of input/output signals in the odor-OSN-PN pathway . We also constructed a two-dimensional ( 2D ) linear–nonlinear ( LN ) model of the OSN-to-PN transformation by inducing an ensemble of triangle-shaped OSN spike rates via a systematic design of olfactory stimuli . 
In flowering plants , seed development is initiated by the fusion of the maternal egg and central cells with two paternal sperm cells , leading to the formation of embryo and endosperm , respectively . The fertilization products are surrounded by the maternally derived seed coat , whose development prior to fertilization is blocked by epigenetic regulators belonging to the Polycomb Group ( PcG ) protein family . Here we show that fertilization of the central cell results in the production of auxin and most likely its export to the maternal tissues , which drives seed coat development by removing PcG function . We furthermore show that mutants for the MADS-box transcription factor AGL62 have an impaired transport of auxin from the endosperm to the integuments , which results in seed abortion . We propose that AGL62 regulates auxin transport from the endosperm to the integuments , leading to the removal of the PcG block on seed coat development .  In flowering plants , fertilization of the two female gametes , egg cell and central cell by the two male sperm cells results in the development of the embryo and the endosperm , a nourishing tissue which supports embryo growth . These two fertilization products are surrounded by the seed coat , a sporophytic tissue of purely maternal origin . While the embryo is the only component of the seed that will form the next generation , it contributes little to seed growth . Instead , the interplay between the endosperm and seed coat determines the final size of the seed . Impaired endosperm proliferation has a negative effect on seed coat development , as is the case in the Arabidopsis haiku or miniseed mutants ( Garcia et al . , 2003; Luo et al . , 2005 ) or in transgenic lines expressing diphtheria toxin A in the endosperm ( Weijers et al . , 2003 ) . And , conversely , mutations that affect seed coat expansion limit endosperm growth , such as transparent testa glabra 2 ( Garcia et al . , 2005 ) , while mutants with increased integument cell proliferation like megaintegumenta/auxin responsive factor 2 , result in enlarged seeds with more abundant endosperm ( Schruff et al . , 2006 ) . Furthermore , the absence of the endothelium integument layer results in seed abortion , highlighting the importance of the developing seed coat for the establishment of a viable seed ( Mizzotti et al . , 2012 ) . Endosperm initiation in Arabidopsis is coupled to the production of auxin in the central cell following fertilization ( Figueiredo et al . , 2015 ) ; however , the factor initiating seed coat development is yet to be described . Seed coat initiation is dependent on the fertilization of the female gametophyte , but mutants for sporophytically-acting Polycomb Group ( PcG ) proteins develop a seed coat without fertilization in a dosage-sensitive manner ( Roszak and Köhler , 2011 ) . PcG proteins assemble into multimeric complexes , of which the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 ( PRC2 ) represses target loci through the deposition of trimethyl groups on lysine 27 of histone H3 ( H3K27me3 ) ( Mozgova et al . , 2015 ) . Therefore , the initiation of seed coat development prior to fertilization is inhibited by sporophytically active PRC2 complexes and this block is relieved following fertilization through a signal derived from the fertilization products ( Figueiredo and Köhler , 2014; Mozgova et al . , 2015 ) . Seed coat development is dependent on the development of the sexual endosperm ( Weijers et al . , 2003; Ingouff et al . , 2006; Roszak and Köhler , 2011 ) , strongly suggesting that the seed coat-initiation signal is generated in the fertilized central cell/endosperm . Here , we show that seed coat development requires production of auxin in the fertilized central cell/endosperm and most likely the transport of auxin to the ovule integuments in an AGL62-dependent manner . We demonstrate that application of auxin is sufficient to drive seed coat development and that AGL62 regulates the expression of P-GLYCOPROTEIN 10 ( PGP10 ) , in the endosperm , which likely functions as an auxin transporter to the sporophytic tissues . Finally , we show that auxin is sufficient to remove the PRC2 block on seed coat development . 
The interaction between a bacteriophage and its host is mediated by the phage's receptor binding protein ( RBP ) . Despite its fundamental role in governing phage activity and host range , molecular rules of RBP function remain a mystery . Here , we systematically dissect the functional role of every residue in the tip domain of T7 phage RBP ( 1660 variants ) by developing a high-throughput , locus-specific , phage engineering method . This rich dataset allowed us to cross compare functional profiles across hosts to precisely identify regions of functional importance , many of which were previously unknown . Substitution patterns showed host-specific differences in position and physicochemical properties of mutations , revealing molecular adaptation to individual hosts . We discovered gain-of-function variants against resistant hosts and host-constricting variants that eliminated certain hosts . To demonstrate therapeutic utility , we engineered highly active T7 variants against a urinary tract pathogen . Our approach presents a generalized framework for characterizing sequence–function relationships in many phage–bacterial systems .  Bacteriophages ( or ‘phages’ ) shape microbial ecosystems by infecting and killing targeted bacterial species . As a result , they are promising tools for treatment of antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections and microbiome manipulation ( Canfield and Duerkop , 2020; Chen et al . , 2014; Clokie et al . , 2011; Dedrick et al . , 2019; Kilcher and Loessner , 2019; Kutter et al . , 2015; Mizuno et al . , 2020; Sausset et al . , 2020; Schooley et al . , 2017; Shen et al . , 2015; Shkoporov and Hill , 2019; De Sordi et al . , 2019 ) . Interaction of phages with their bacterial receptors is a key determinant of their host range and virulence ( Bertozzi Silva et al . , 2016; de Jonge et al . , 2019; Rousset et al . , 2018 ) . This interaction is primarily mediated by the receptor binding proteins ( RBPs ) of the phage ( Nobrega et al . , 2018 ) . RBPs enable phages to adsorb to diverse cell surface molecules , including proteins , polysaccharides , lipopolysaccharides ( LPS ) , and carbohydrate-binding moieties . Phages exhibit high functional plasticity through genetic alterations to RBPs and by natural and laboratory-guided evolution , which can modulate activity and host range to different hosts and environments ( Ando et al . , 2015; Chen et al . , 2017; Dedrick et al . , 2019; Dunne et al . , 2019; Garcia et al . , 2003; Gebhart et al . , 2017; Holtzman et al . , 2020; Lin et al . , 2012; Meyer et al . , 2012; Yehl et al . , 2019; Yosef et al . , 2017 ) . In essence , survivability of a phage is intimately linked to the adaptability of its RBP . The challenge now is to understand the molecular code of RBPs in sufficient depth to enable predictable manipulation of host range and virulence . We sought to do so by combining deep mutational scanning ( DMS ) of the RBP with powerful selections on multiple hosts . Although RBPs remain the focus of many mechanistic , structural , and evolutionary studies and are a prime target for engineering , we currently lack a systematic and comprehensive understanding of how RBP mutations influence phage activity and host range . Though insightful , directed evolution enriches only a small group of ‘winners’ , which makes it difficult to glean a comprehensive mutational landscape of the RBP ( Holtzman et al . , 2020 ) . Random mutagenesis-based screens generate multi-mutant variants whose individual effects cannot be easily deconvolved ( Dunne et al . , 2019; Yehl et al . , 2019 ) . Other approaches including swapping homologous RBPs lead to gain of function; however , the underlying molecular determinants of function can be difficult to explain ( Ando et al . , 2015; Chen et al . , 2017; Gebhart et al . , 2017; Yosef et al . , 2017 ) . In summary , despite the extraordinary functional potential of phage RBPs , how systematic changes to their sequence shape the overall functional landscape of a phage remains unknown . Here , we carried out DMS , a high-throughput experimental technique , of the tip domain of the T7 phage RBP ( tail fiber ) to uncover molecular determinants of activity and host range . The tip domain is the distal region of the tail fiber that makes primary contact with the host receptor ( González-García et al . , 2015; Molineux , 2001; Qimron et al . , 2006 ) . We developed ORACLE ( Optimized Recombination , Accumulation , and Library Expression ) , a high-throughput , locus-specific , phage genome engineering method to create a large , unbiased library of phage variants at a targeted gene locus . Using ORACLE , we systematically and comprehensively mutated the tip domain by making all single amino acid substitutions at every site ( 1660 variants ) and quantified the functional role of all variants on multiple bacterial hosts . We generated high-resolution functional maps delineating regions concentrated with function-enhancing substitutions and host-specific substitutional patterns , many of which were previously unknown . We discovered T7 variants with far greater virulence than wildtype T7 , demonstrating that even those natural phages that are well adapted to a host can be engineered for higher efficacy . However , many variants highly adapted to one host performed poorly on others , underscoring a tradeoff between activity and host range . This functional screening highlights ideal regions of the tip domain for engineering host range . Furthermore , we demonstrated the functional potential of RBPs by discovering gain-of-function variants against resistant hosts and host-constriction variants that selectively eliminate specific hosts . To demonstrate the therapeutic value of ORACLE , we engineered T7 variants that avert emergence of spontaneous resistance in pathogenic Escherichia coli causing urinary tract infections ( UTIs ) . Our study explains the molecular drivers of adaptability of the tip domain and identifies key functional regions determining activity and host range . ORACLE provides a generalized framework to describe sequence–function relationships in phages to elucidate the molecular basis of phages , the most abundant life form on earth . 
Individuals with congenital amusia have a lifelong history of unreliable pitch processing . Accordingly , they downweight pitch cues during speech perception and instead rely on other dimensions such as duration . We investigated the neural basis for this strategy . During fMRI , individuals with amusia ( N = 15 ) and controls ( N = 15 ) read sentences where a comma indicated a grammatical phrase boundary . They then heard two sentences spoken that differed only in pitch and/or duration cues and selected the best match for the written sentence . Prominent reductions in functional connectivity were detected in the amusia group between left prefrontal language-related regions and right hemisphere pitch-related regions , which reflected the between-group differences in cue weights in the same groups of listeners . Connectivity differences between these regions were not present during a control task . Our results indicate that the reliability of perceptual dimensions is linked with functional connectivity between frontal and perceptual regions and suggest a compensatory mechanism .  Congenital amusia is a rare condition characterized by impaired perception of and memory for pitch ( Peretz et al . , 2002 ) . Although congenital amusia presents as an auditory condition , auditory cortical responses are normal ( Moreau et al . , 2013; Norman-Haignere et al . , 2016 ) , as is subcortical encoding of pitch ( Liu et al . , 2015b ) . The dominant view of amusia’s neural basis is that connectivity between right inferior frontal cortex and right auditory cortex is impaired , resulting in impaired conscious access to pitch information for guiding behavior ( Hyde et al . , 2011; Albouy et al . , 2013; Leveque et al . , 2016; Zendel et al . , 2015; see Peretz , 2016 for review ) . While congenital amusia is believed to be innate , there is evidence that recovery is possible through training ( Whiteford and Oxenham , 2018 ) . Although pitch is usually associated with music , it is also important for cueing categories in spoken language ( de Pijper and Sanderman , 1994; Streeter , 1978 ) and conveying emotion in speech ( Frick , 1985 ) . In highly controlled laboratory tasks in which speech perception judgments must be made based on pitch alone , only minor deficits have been observed in amusia ( Liu et al . , 2015a; Patel et al . , 2008 ) . In naturalistic speech perception contexts , people with amusia rarely report any difficulties ( Liu et al . , 2010 ) . This may be because , in natural speech , pitch variation tends to co-occur with variation in other acoustic dimensions , such as duration and amplitude . Our lab has shown that in such cases where multiple redundant cues are available , English-speaking individuals with amusia tend to rely less on pitch than non-amusic controls , suggesting they may calibrate their perception by down-weighting the cues that are less reliable for them ( Jasmin et al . , 2020a ) . As for emotional prosody in speech , individuals with amusia can recognize emotions in spoken sentences , but not in short samples such as isolated vowels ( Pralus et al . , 2019 ) , or when speech has been filtered to remove high-frequency non-pitch cues ( Lolli et al . , 2015 ) . It is unknown how decreased reliance on a particular acoustic cue during speech perception ( such as pitch cues in amusia ) is reflected in the brain . Previous neural studies of cue integration have focused on integration of multiple modalities , for example the ‘weighted connections’ model of multisensory integration . In this model , the relative reliability of the modalities involved with perception of a stimulus is related to differential connectivity strength ( Beauchamp et al . , 2010; Rohe and Noppeney , 2018 ) . For example , when participants simultaneously view and feel touches to the hand , and reliability of visual and tactile perception is manipulated experimentally via introduction of noise , connection strength ( effective connectivity measured with functional MRI and structural equation modeling ) between unimodal and multimodal sensory areas adjusts accordingly . More concretely , when visual information is degraded , the connection strength between lateral occipital cortex ( a visual area ) and intraparietal sulcus ( a multimodal area ) decreases , and when tactile perception is made noisier , connection strength between secondary somatosensory cortex and intraparietal sulcus becomes weaker ( Beauchamp et al . , 2010 ) . Similarly , effective connectivity between the ( multimodal ) superior temporal sulcus ( STS ) and visual and auditory areas has shown similar modulations during processing of audiovisual speech: connection strength between auditory cortex and the STS is weaker when noise has been introduced to the auditory speech , and conversely connection strength between visual cortex and STS is weaker if visual noise is introduced ( Nath and Beauchamp , 2011 ) . Just as connectivity differences have been shown to reflect the precision of different sensory modalities during multisensory integration , an analogous phenomenon may be at work within a single modality during multidimensional integration . As mentioned , the acoustic speech signal carries multiple co-occurring acoustic dimensions ( e . g . roughly described as voice pitch , duration , and amplitude ) , which often provide redundant cues to disambiguate a linguistic category ( Patel , 2014; Winter , 2014; Jasmin et al . , 2020a ) . Individuals with typical pitch perception have learned through a lifetime of experience with speech acoustics that vocal pitch is a useful and reliable cue . By contrast , individuals with amusia , who have unreliable perception of and memory for pitch ( analogous to the ‘noise’ introduced in the multisensory integration studies cited above ) , would have learned that , for them , pitch is not a reliable cue for processing spoken language . Thus , by analogy to the multisensory weighting results described above , we hypothesize that amusics may exhibit decreased connectivity between language regions and pitch-related areas during speech processing . The neural foundations of perceptual weighting in speech have thus far not been investigated in atypical individuals . Indeed , only one previous functional neuroimaging study has examined the neural processing of spoken material in people with amusia . In this study , no group differences were detected in task-related activation or functional connectivity during processing of speech ( whereas group differences were observed during processing of tones; Albouy et al . , 2019 ) . However , the connectivity analyses in this study focused on the silent retention interval in a task in which participants needed to maintain phonemic and not pitch-related information in memory; the analyses also used broader bilateral ROIs within networks associated with language processing . It remains an open question how functional connectivity in amusic and non-amusic participants may differ during speech encoding in pitch-related language tasks within regions of interest selected with a whole-brain data-driven approach . To determine whether the relative reliability of auditory dimensions in speech perception is reflected in functional connectivity , we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to scan 15 individuals with amusia and 15 controls . Participants matched spoken sentences with visually presented ones on the basis of the position of intonational phrase boundaries . These intonation changes were conveyed differently , in three conditions: Pitch-Informative ( where only pitch cues could be used to make the judgment ) , Duration-Informative ( where only duration cues could be used ) or Both-Informative ( both pitch and duration cues could be used; Jasmin et al . , 2020a; Jasmin et al . , 2020b ) . Functional connectivity was then examined using a data-driven approach that allowed us to identify the largest group differences , without the need for regions of interest to be selected a priori . The benefit of this approach is that any set of regions could emerge , not only ones reported in previous literature . Crucially , task performance was matched between the groups ( based on prior behavioural testing; Jasmin et al . , 2020a ) , ensuring that any neural differences did not simply represent an inability to perform the task . Finally , functional connectivity between these areas was analyzed with respect to prosodic cue weights obtained outside the scanner , and also compared to functional connectivity calculated from different scanning runs with a passive listening task . 
Devil Facial Tumour 2 ( DFT2 ) is a recently discovered contagious cancer circulating in the Tasmanian devil ( Sarcophilus harrisii ) , a species which already harbours a more widespread contagious cancer , Devil Facial Tumour 1 ( DFT1 ) . Here we show that in contrast to DFT1 , DFT2 cells express major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I molecules , demonstrating that loss of MHC is not necessary for the emergence of a contagious cancer . However , the most highly expressed MHC class I alleles in DFT2 cells are common among host devils or non-polymorphic , reducing immunogenicity in a population sharing these alleles . In parallel , MHC class I loss is emerging in vivo , thus DFT2 may be mimicking the evolutionary trajectory of DFT1 . Based on these results we propose that contagious cancers may exploit partial histocompatibility between the tumour and host , but that loss of allogeneic antigens could facilitate widespread transmission of DFT2 .  Contagious cancers have emerged and circulate in two species of mammals ( dogs and Tasmanian devils ) and four species of molluscs ( Metzger et al . , 2015 , 2016; Novinski , 1876; Pearse and Swift , 2006 ) . The Tasmanian devil is the only mammalian species in which two independent contagious cancers exist , Devil Facial Tumour 1 ( DFT1 ) and Devil Facial Tumour 2 ( DFT2 ) ( Pye et al . , 2016b ) . Although both cancers have similar gross morphology , causing tumours on the face , neck and oral cavity , genetic analysis shows that they emerged in different individuals ( Pearse and Swift , 2006; Pye et al . , 2016b; Stammnitz et al . , 2018 ) . DFT1 was first identified in 1996 in the northeast of Tasmania ( Hawkins et al . , 2006 ) , but has since spread widely , causing close to 100% mortality and drastic decline of affected populations ( Hamede et al . , 2015 ) . In contrast , DFT2 is a more recent contagious cancer , it was first characterised in 2014 and has been formally identified in eleven devils from the Channel region of Southwest Tasmania ( Pye et al . , 2016b; Kwon et al . , 2018 ) . Recent immunohistochemical and drug sensitivity analyses of DFT2 indicate it arose from a similar tissue to DFT1 ( Stammnitz et al . , 2018 ) . As allografts , DFT1 and DFT2 cells should be rejected by the host devil through T cell recognition of non-self MHC class I molecules encoded by the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) ( Sherman and Chattopadhyay , 1993 ) . The mature MHC class I molecule is a trimer that acts as a ligand for the T cell receptor ( TCR ) and is composed of a light chain , β2-microglobulin ( β2m ) , in non-covalent association with a heavy chain , which provides a binding cleft for self and non-self peptides . Classical MHC class I molecules are important transplantation antigens that are highly polymorphic , ubiquitously expressed and involved in peptide-antigen presentation . In contrast , non-classical MHC class I molecules have little polymorphism and more diverse functions , including regulation of the immune response particularly by inhibiting natural killer ( NK ) cell function ( Braud et al . , 1999 ) . Allografts can be rejected within 7–14 days when host CD8+ T cells are exposed to non-self MHC class I molecules and their bound peptides on the surface of donor cells ( Rosenberg , 1993 ) . Vertebrates have multiple MHC class I genes that are generally not orthologous between species due to rapid evolution ( Adams and Parham , 2001 ) . Five MHC class I genes have been identified in the genomic region encoding the Tasmanian devil MHC ( Cheng et al . , 2012 ) . Saha-UA , -UB and –UC , are likely classical , with moderate levels of polymorphism and ubiquitous expression , while Saha-UD , –UK and -UM , are non-classical , with limited polymorphism and restricted expression ( Cheng et al . , 2012; Cheng and Belov , 2014 ) . We have previously demonstrated that DFT1 cells down-regulate MHC class I and class II molecules from their cell surface , thereby removing the targets for a T cell response ( Siddle et al . , 2013 ) . This is the first indication that DFT1 cells have similar immune evasion mechanisms to those found in single organism tumours ( Hicklin et al . , 1999; McGranahan et al . , 2017 ) . Loss of MHC class I is due to epigenetic down-regulation of β2m , and the peptide transporter encoded by TAP1 and TAP2 ( Siddle et al . , 2013 ) but MHC class I can be restored in DFT1 cells when treated with IFNγ ( Siddle et al . , 2013 ) . MHC class I positive DFT1 cells have since been used with some success in initiating immune responses to DFT1 cells ( Tovar et al . , 2017 ) . Down-regulation of MHC is also observed in the canine transmissible venereal tumour ( CTVT ) , where MHC molecules are down-regulated during transmission and growth ( Hsiao et al . , 2002; Pérez et al . , 1998 ) . However , subsequent cytokine signalling leads to lymphocyte infiltration of tumours , MHC up-regulation and either tumour regression or stasis of growth ( Yang et al . , 1987 ) . These findings have suggested that loss of MHC class I expression is necessary for the emergence and subsequent transmission of contagious cancers . Why DFT2 cells can pass between individuals without a protective immune response from the host is not known , nor are the conditions that have facilitated the emergence of two contagious cancers in this species . Here we show that in contrast to DFT1 , DFT2 cells express MHC class I molecules . However , the dominantly expressed MHC class I alleles are either non-classical or shared with host devils and common in the wider population . Finally , DFT2 tumours were identified with evidence of MHC class I loss , indicating the emergence of MHC class I down-regulation in this tumour . 
The granular retrosplenial cortex ( RSG ) is critical for both spatial and non-spatial behaviors , but the underlying neural codes remain poorly understood . Here , we use optogenetic circuit mapping in mice to reveal a double dissociation that allows parallel circuits in superficial RSG to process disparate inputs . The anterior thalamus and dorsal subiculum , sources of spatial information , strongly and selectively recruit small low-rheobase ( LR ) pyramidal cells in RSG . In contrast , neighboring regular-spiking ( RS ) cells are preferentially controlled by claustral and anterior cingulate inputs , sources of mostly non-spatial information . Precise sublaminar axonal and dendritic arborization within RSG layer 1 , in particular , permits this parallel processing . Observed thalamocortical synaptic dynamics enable computational models of LR neurons to compute the speed of head rotation , despite receiving head direction inputs that do not explicitly encode speed . Thus , parallel input streams identify a distinct principal neuronal subtype ideally positioned to support spatial orientation computations in the RSG .  Activity in the granular retrosplenial cortex ( RSG ) is correlated with a wide variety of behaviors , including spatial navigation , learning , memory , fear conditioning , imagination , and planning for the future ( Alexander et al . , 2020; Alexander and Nitz , 2017; Chang et al . , 2020; Chrastil , 2018; Hinman et al . , 2018; Mao et al . , 2018; Miller et al . , 2021; Miller et al . , 2019 ) . The RSG is also among the most densely connected regions of the brain , integrating inputs from a bevy of cortical and subcortical sources and serving as part of the default mode network ( Greicius et al . , 2009; Kaboodvand et al . , 2018; Liu et al . , 2019; Whitesell et al . , 2021 ) . While these anatomical connections are well-documented ( Van Groen and Wyss , 2003; van Groen and Wyss , 1990; Whitesell et al . , 2021; Wyss and Van Groen , 1992 ) , few studies have examined their functional nature ( Nitzan et al . , 2020; Yamawaki et al . , 2019b; Yamawaki et al . , 2019a; Yamawaki et al . , 2016a ) , and cell-type specificity has yet to be sufficiently explored . Such knowledge is critical to develop a mechanistic understanding of how the RSG integrates information from multiple sources to carry out its spatial and non-spatial functions . Cortical regions , including the RSG , receive inputs from one or more thalamic nuclei ( Herkenham , 1986; Herkenham , 1980; Jones , 2001; Jones , 1998; Peters , 1979; Van Groen and Wyss , 1995 ) . Thalamic relay cells ( Clascá et al . , 2012 ) are grouped into three distinct classes: core , intralaminar , and paralaminar/ventral midline ( matrix ) nuclei ( Hanbery and Jasper , 1953; Herkenham , 1986; Jones , 2001; Jones , 1998; Morison and Dempsey , 1941; Rubio-Garrido et al . , 2009 ) . Thalamic matrix nuclei project predominantly to layer 1 of many cortical regions ( Herkenham , 1986; Herkenham , 1980 ) , resulting in subtype-specific activation of cortical inhibitory ( Anastasiades et al . , 2021; Cruikshank et al . , 2012; Delevich et al . , 2015 ) and excitatory neurons ( Collins et al . , 2018; Cruikshank et al . , 2012; Guo et al . , 2018; Rodriguez-Moreno et al . , 2020; Rubio-Garrido et al . , 2009; Van der Werf et al . , 2002; Yamawaki et al . , 2019b ) . Matrix thalamocortical ( TC ) inputs from the anterior thalamus , which contains the highest proportion of head direction cells in the brain ( Taube and Bassett , 2003 ) , influence layer 5 pyramidal cells in RSG ( Yamawaki et al . , 2019b ) . However , potential subtype-specific responses and their functional impact on the encoding of directional information in RSG have yet to be examined . The cortex , including the RSG , also receives widespread inputs from the densely connected claustrum ( Brown et al . , 2017; Crick and Koch , 2005; Goll et al . , 2015; Jackson et al . , 2018; Kim et al . , 2016; Narikiyo et al . , 2020; Wang et al . , 2017; White and Mathur , 2018 ) . As with TC signaling , the claustrum innervates both excitatory ( da Costa et al . , 2010; Narikiyo et al . , 2020 ) and inhibitory ( Jackson et al . , 2018; Narikiyo et al . , 2020; Salerno et al . , 1984 ) neurons via precise laminar targeting ( Wang et al . , 2017 ) and projects to many of the same cortical regions as the thalamus ( Burman et al . , 2011 ) . Claustrocortical ( ClaC ) projections are thought to regulate complex functions ( Crick and Koch , 2005; Goll et al . , 2015; Jackson et al . , 2018; Kitanishi and Matsuo , 2017; Narikiyo et al . , 2020; Renouard et al . , 2015; Smith et al . , 2012; White and Mathur , 2018 ) , including the coordination and amplification of correlated signals across cortical regions ( Kim et al . , 2016; Smith et al . , 2012; Smythies et al . , 2012 ) . Surprisingly , the RSG is one of few regions that does not return reciprocal connections to the claustrum ( Zingg et al . , 2018 ) . Despite the unique unidirectional nature of this connection , no studies have investigated the functional nature or subtype-specificity of ClaC inputs to RSG neurons . Each cortical region also receives inputs from select other cortical areas . The RSG receives direct innervation from the secondary motor cortex ( Yamawaki et al . , 2016a ) , contralateral RSG ( Sempere-Ferràndez et al . , 2018; Wyss et al . , 1990 ) , and anterior cingulate cortex ( ACC; Van Groen and Wyss , 2003; van Groen and Wyss , 1990 ) , among others . The RSG and ACC , in particular , have been implicated in several shared limbic and cognitive functions , including fear conditioning ( Frankland et al . , 2004; Han et al . , 2003; Yamawaki et al . , 2019a; Yamawaki et al . , 2019b ) , but the cellular targets of ACC inputs to RSG have not been identified . Thalamic , claustral , and cortical inputs all converge in the RSG , but whether they do so via parallel or integrative control of target excitatory neurons remains unknown . Within the RSG , the superficial layers contain two subtypes of principal excitatory pyramidal neurons that have strikingly distinct physiology , morphology , and computational capabilities: the low-rheobase ( LR ) neuron and the regular-spiking ( RS ) neuron ( Brennan et al . , 2020; Kurotani et al . , 2013; Yousuf et al . , 2020 ) . Here , we use channelrhodopsin ( ChR2 ) -assisted circuit mapping ( CRACM ) to study the subtype-specific circuits formed by anterior thalamic , claustral , anterior cingulate , and dorsal subicular inputs to the RSG . Our results reveal a double dissociation in the precise organization of afferent axons and principal cell dendrites that can support parallel processing in superficial RSG . Specifically , we find that anterior thalamus and dorsal subiculum preferentially control LR neurons , whereas claustrum and anterior cingulate control RS cells . We show that the synaptic dynamics of thalamic inputs allow for the robust encoding of angular speed by LR cell models , even though these inputs only explicitly contain information about head direction , not speed . Together , our results suggest that LR neurons are ideally positioned to contribute to the initial spatial orientation computations performed in superficial RSG . 
Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a prominent risk factor for dementias including tauopathies like chronic traumatic encephalopathy ( CTE ) . The mechanisms that promote prion-like spreading of Tau aggregates after TBI are not fully understood , in part due to lack of tractable animal models . Here , we test the putative role of seizures in promoting the spread of tauopathy . We introduce ‘tauopathy reporter’ zebrafish expressing a genetically encoded fluorescent Tau biosensor that reliably reports accumulation of human Tau species when seeded via intraventricular brain injections . Subjecting zebrafish larvae to a novel TBI paradigm produced various TBI features including cell death , post–traumatic seizures , and Tau inclusions . Bath application of dynamin inhibitors or anticonvulsant drugs rescued TBI-induced tauopathy and cell death . These data suggest a role for seizure activity in the prion-like seeding and spreading of tauopathy following TBI . Further work is warranted regarding anti-convulsants that dampen post-traumatic seizures as a route to moderating subsequent tauopathy .  Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a leading cause of mortality and disability worldwide ( Hay et al . , 2016; Nguyen et al . , 2016; Rimel et al . , 1981 ) . It is also a prominent risk factor for neurodegeneration and dementia , such as chronic traumatic encephalopathy ( CTE ) ( Chauhan , 2014; Gardner and Yaffe , 2015; Uryu et al . , 2007 ) . TBI can result from direct physical insults , from rapid acceleration and deceleration of the brain , or from shock wave impacts such as pressure waves emanating from explosive blasts ( Cruz-Haces et al . , 2017 ) . Regardless , the primary mechanisms have much in common and the neuropathology in TBI and CTE patients includes the wide distribution of hyperphosphorylated Tau pathology , axonal degeneration , and neuronal loss ( Hay et al . , 2016; Johnson et al . , 2013; McKee et al . , 2015; Ojo et al . , 2016 ) . The mechanisms whereby physical injury is translated into progressive Tau pathology remain unresolved and represent prospective therapeutic targets . Progress on this front is hampered by lack of access to suitable models: applying physical injury to a cell culture is difficult and poorly represents the complex biopathology that intertwines many multifaceted aspects of brain physiology . The progressive deposition of hyperphosphorylated Tau protein in filamentous forms is a defining hallmark of tauopathies , which includes Alzheimer’s disease ( AD ) , CTE , and several other dementias . Each of the tauopathies affects distinct brain regions and has a unique clinical presentation ( Kovacs , 2017; Orr et al . , 2017 ) . Early in CTE , hyperphosphorylated Tau is accumulated in a cluster of perivascular neurons and glia in the depths of cortical sulci . Later in CTE , Tau pathology is widespread and incorporates cortical and subcortical gray-matter areas ( Hay et al . , 2016; Johnson et al . , 2012; McKee et al . , 2015 ) . This broad spreading of Tau pathology in CTE can also be observed following TBI ascribed to single trauma events ( Johnson et al . , 2012 ) . This spreading of Tauopathy is consistent with a prion-like mechanism; indeed , brain homogenates from mice subjected to TBI can initiate p-Tau pathology when injected into healthy wild-type mice ( Zanier et al . , 2018 ) . The recipient mice develop a p-Tau pathology similar to single severe TBI patients , which then spreads from injection sites to distant regions , behaving similarly to bona fide prions ( Zanier et al . , 2018 ) . Beyond TBI , the self-propagation and prion-like spread of Tau aggregates is thought to play a key role in the progression of other tauopathies such as AD ( Iba et al . , 2013; Iba et al . , 2015; Mudher et al . , 2017; Narasimhan et al . , 2017; Sanders et al . , 2014 ) . Mechanisms of Tau spreading , and the therapeutic targets they offer , have principally been defined in vitro and include tunnelling nanotubes and extracellular vesicles ( EVs such as exosomes and synaptic vesicles ) and their uptake via endocytosis ( Colin et al . , 2020; Demaegd et al . , 2018; Evans et al . , 2018 ) . In AD and other tauopathies , observations from patients and mice have highlighted the capacity of Tau seeds to spread trans-synaptically ( Goedert et al . , 1989; Pickett et al . , 2017 ) . Moreover , it has been shown that neuronal activity serves an important role in the spread of Tau pathology and general proteostasis ( Pickett et al . , 2017; Wu et al . , 2016; Yamada et al . , 2014 ) . Stimulation of neuronal activity increased the extracellular release of Tau to the media in vitro and enhanced Tau pathology in a mouse model of familial frontotemporal dementia ( Pickett et al . , 2017; Wu et al . , 2016; Yamada et al . , 2014 ) . Whether similar mechanisms of Tau release and spread occur following TBI remains unknown . In this light , an intriguing aspect of TBI is the prominence of post-traumatic seizures that might be predicted to initiate the aggregation and/or exacerbate the spread of Tau pathology . Seizures are one of the key consequences of all types of TBI , and they have been more commonly reported in patients who suffered from blast injuries ( Asikainen et al . , 1999; Salinsky et al . , 2015 ) . Although the exact prevalence remains undetermined ( Lucke-Wold et al . , 2015 ) , it is anticipated that over 50% of TBI patients with severe injuries develop seizures or post-traumatic epilepsy ( Kovacs et al . , 2014 ) . A link between seizures and Tau pathology is suggested by increased prevalence of seizures in AD patients and animal models of AD ( Sánchez et al . , 2018; Yan et al . , 2012 ) . Whether reducing post-traumatic seizures can delay or minimize the progression of tauopathy has yet to be fully explored . This knowledge gap is due in part to a lack of accessible in vivo models that can report the progression and spread of tauopathy , or that allow neural activity associated with TBI to be measured and manipulated . To address these issues , we engineered a tauopathy biosensor transgenic zebrafish that develops GFP+ puncta when Tau aggregates within the brain or spinal cord . Additionally , we introduce a simple medium-throughput method to induce TBI in zebrafish larvae . Combining these novel approaches , we found that post-traumatic seizures correlate strongly with spreading tau pathology following TBI . Manipulating this seizure activity mitigated Tau aggregation and revealed a critical role for endocytosis in the prion-like spread of Tau seeds in vivo following TBI . The results from our novel in vivo TBI model implicate seizures and dynamin-dependent endocytosis in the spread of Tau seeds , thereby offering potential therapeutic targets . 
Brain connectivity is often considered in terms of the communication between functionally distinct brain regions . Many studies have investigated the extent to which patterns of coupling strength between multiple neural populations relates to behaviour . For example , studies have used ‘functional connectivity fingerprints’ to characterise individuals' brain activity . Here , we investigate the extent to which the exact spatial arrangement of cortical regions interacts with measures of brain connectivity . We find that the shape and exact location of brain regions interact strongly with the modelling of brain connectivity , and present evidence that the spatial arrangement of functional regions is strongly predictive of non-imaging measures of behaviour and lifestyle . We believe that , in many cases , cross-subject variations in the spatial configuration of functional brain regions are being interpreted as changes in functional connectivity . Therefore , a better understanding of these effects is important when interpreting the relationship between functional imaging data and cognitive traits .  The organisation of the human brain into large-scale functional networks has been investigated extensively over the past two decades using resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging ( rfMRI ) . Spontaneous fluctuations in distinct brain regions ( as measured with rfMRI ) show temporal correlations with each other , revealing complex patterns of functional connectivity ( FC ) ( Biswal et al . , 1995; Friston , 1994 , 2011 ) . Extensive connectivity between cortical areas and with subcortical brain regions has long been considered a core feature of brain anatomy and function ( Crick and Jones , 1993 ) , and dysfunctional coupling is associated with a variety of neurological and psychiatric disorders including schizophrenia , depression , and Alzheimer’s disease ( Castellanos et al . , 2013 ) . Given the great potential neuroscientific and clinical value of rfMRI , it is important to determine which aspects of rfMRI data most sensitively and interpretably reflect trait variability across subjects . At a neural level , potential sources of meaningful cross-subject variability include: ( i ) the strength of the functional coupling ( i . e . interactions ) between two different neural populations ( ‘coupling’ ) , and ( ii ) the spatial configuration and organisation of functional regions ( ‘topography’ ) . In this study , we aim to identify how these key aspects of rfMRI data influence derived measures of functional connectivity and how they relate to interesting trait variability in behaviour and lifestyle across individuals . Our findings reveal variability in the spatial topography of functional regions across subjects , and suggest that this variability is the primary driver of cross-subject trait variability in correlation-based FC measures obtained via group-level rfMRI parcellation approaches . These results have important implications for future rfMRI research , and for the interpretation of FC findings . A commonly applied approach used to derive FC measures from rfMRI data is to parcellate the brain into a set of functional regions ( ‘nodes’ ) , and estimate the temporal correlations between pairs of node timeseries ( ‘edges’ ) to build a network matrix ( Smith et al . , 2013b ) . This approach has previously been likened to a fingerprint , enabling the unique identification of individuals , and the prediction of behavioural traits such as intelligence ( Finn et al . , 2015; Passingham et al . , 2002 ) . Of particular interest is the ability of network matrices to explain cross-subject variability in behaviour and performance on psychometric tests . To this end , Cross Correlation Analysis ( CCA ) was previously adopted to link a ‘positive-negative’ axis of behaviour to network matrices in data from the Human Connectome Project ( Smith et al . , 2015 ) . CCA allows the comparison of a set of variables obtained from rfMRI ( such as network matrices of edges ) to a set of behavioural variables by estimating independent linear transformations for the two sets of variables such that they are maximally correlated . Here , we replicated this previous work in a larger subject sample ( almost double the number of individuals ) , and adopt CCA to determine which key aspect of rfMRI data is uniquely associated with behaviour . Parcellation methods that can be used to estimate network matrices include the use of anatomical , functional , and multi-modal atlases ( Glasser et al . , 2016; Tzourio-Mazoyer et al . , 2002; Yeo et al . , 2011 ) , with functional parcellations often being data driven via techniques such as clustering and independent component analysis ( ICA ) ( Beckmann et al . , 2005; Craddock et al . , 2012 ) . Data-driven approaches such as ICA have been used to identify consistent large-scale resting state networks ( Damoiseaux et al . , 2006 ) and to characterise FC abnormalities in a variety of mental disorders ( Littow et al . , 2015; Pannekoek et al . , 2015 ) . Any given parcellation is typically defined at the group level , and hence additional steps are required to map a group-level parcellation onto individual subjects’ data ( that has undergone registration to a common space ) , in order to obtain subject-specific parcel timeseries and associated connectivity edge estimates . Timeseries derived from hard ( binary , non-overlapping ) parcellations are often obtained using a simple masking approach ( i . e . extracting the averaged BOLD timeseries across all voxels or vertices in a node ) , whereas ICA parcellations ( partially overlapping , soft parcellations that contain continuous weights ) are mapped onto single-subject data using dual regression analysis or back projection ( Calhoun et al . , 2001; Filippini et al . , 2009 ) . The first stage of a dual regression approach involves multiple spatial regression of group ICA maps into each preprocessed individual dataset to obtain subject-specific timeseries; the second stage is a multiple temporal regression of these stage one timeseries into the same preprocessed dataset to obtain subject-specific spatial maps . Note , dual regression is , to some extent , expected to underestimate subject-specific spatial variability because it involves post-hoc regressions of a group-level set of spatial maps , which are unlikely to be an accurate model for the data of individual subjects . Indeed , previous work has shown that , in the presence of spatial variability or inaccurate intersubject alignment , these common methods for mapping group parcellations onto individuals do not recover accurate subject-specific functional regions , and this can severely impact the accuracy of estimated timecourses and derived FC edges ( Allen et al . , 2012; Smith et al . , 2011 ) . More recently , several studies have developed more thorough characterisations of the patterns of spatial variability in network topography across subjects ( i . e . spatial shape , size and position of functional regions ) ( Glasser et al . , 2016; Gordon et al . , 2017a , 2017b; Laumann et al . , 2015; Swaroop Guntupalli and Haxby , 2017; Wang et al . , 2015 ) . For example , Glasser et al . showed that the subject-specific spatial topology of area 55b in relation to the frontal and premotor eye fields substantially diverged from the group average in 11% of subjects ( Glasser et al . , 2016 ) . In addition , the size of all cortical areas , including large ones like V1 , varies by twofold or more across individuals ( Amunts et al . , 2000; Glasser et al . , 2016 ) . This extensive presence of spatial variability across individuals highlights the need for analysis methods that are adaptive and better able to accurately capture functional regions in individual subjects . Another approach that aims to achieve a more accurate subject-specific description of this spatial variability is PROFUMO , which simultaneously estimates subject and group probabilistic functional mode ( PFM ) maps and network matrices ( instead of separate parcellation and mapping steps ) . Specifically , PROFUMO is a matrix factorisation model that decomposes data into estimates of subject-specific spatial maps , time courses , and amplitudes using a variational Bayesian approach with both spatial and temporal priors that seek to optimise for both spatial map sparsity and temporal dynamics consistent with haemodynamically regularised neural activity ( Harrison et al . , 2015 ) . PROFUMO adopts a hierarchical approach by iteratively optimising subject and group estimates ( instead of first estimating group components using group ICA and separately mapping these onto subjects using dual regression ) , and is therefore expected to more accurately capture subject-specific spatial variability than does dual regression . Other approaches are available to obtain group and subject parcellations in one step , for example using a groupwise normalised cut spectral clustering approach ( Shen et al . , 2013 ) . In the present study , we show that the spatial variability across subjects captured in PFMs is strongly associated with behaviour . Conceptually , network edges are commonly thought of as reflecting coupling strength between spatially separated neuronal populations . However , as discussed above , edge estimates are highly sensitive to spatial misalignments across individuals . Additionally , correlation-based edge estimates are influenced by the amplitudes of localised spontaneous rfMRI fluctuations ( Duff et al . , 2018 ) , which have been shown to capture trait variability across subjects , and state variability within an individual over time ( Bijsterbosch et al . , 2017 ) . These findings demonstrate the sensitivity of edge-strength estimates to many different types of subject variability , and highlight the need to identify which aspects of FC tap most directly into behaviourally relevant population-level variability . Here , we investigate the complex relationships between different features of an rfMRI dataset and also the associations with variability across individuals in terms of their performance on behavioural tests , their lifestyle choices , and demographic information . Using data from the Human Connectome Project ( HCP ) , we provide evidence for systematic differences in the spatial organisation of functional regions . We then use simulations that manipulate aspects of the data such that , for example , only cross-subject spatial variability is present in the data ( i . e . by fixing edge strength to be the group average for each individual ) to investigate whether these differences reflect meaningful cross-subject information and drive edge estimates for several common FC approaches . 
Change in the identity of the components of the transcription pre-initiation complex is proposed to control cell type-specific gene expression . Replacement of the canonical TFIID-TBP complex with TRF3/TBP2 was reported to be required for activation of muscle-gene expression . The lack of a developmental phenotype in TBP2 null mice prompted further analysis to determine whether TBP2 deficiency can compromise adult myogenesis . We show here that TBP2 null mice have an intact regeneration potential upon injury and that TBP2 is not expressed in established C2C12 muscle cell or in primary mouse MuSCs . While TFIID subunits and TBP are downregulated during myoblast differentiation , reduced amounts of these proteins form a complex that is detectable on promoters of muscle genes and is essential for their expression . This evidence demonstrates that TBP2 does not replace TBP during muscle differentiation , as previously proposed , with limiting amounts of TFIID-TBP being required to promote muscle-specific gene expression .  The process of RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) recruitment to protein coding genes is part of the assembly of the Pre-Initiation Complex ( PIC ) that is typically nucleated by TFIID-mediated recognition of core promoter sequences . The TFIID complex is composed of TATA-box binding protein ( TBP ) and TBP-associated factors ( TAFs ) ( Roeder , 1996; Tora , 2002 ) . Moreover , several TBP-related factors ( TRFs ) have been identified ( Akhtar and Veenstra , 2011 ) , expanding the repertoire and versatility of the basal transcription machinery ( Müller et al . , 2010; Goodrich and Tjian , 2010; Müller et al . , 2007 ) . While a number of events contribute to promote PIC assembly , including sequence-specific transcriptional activators , chromatin remodeling complexes and histone modifications , recent work has proposed that changes in the identity of PIC components is a key determinant of cell type-specific gene expression ( Hart et al . , 2007; Deato and Tjian , 2007 ) . In particular , it was recently suggested that during skeletal muscle differentiation , canonical TFIID is replaced by a complex consisting of TBP2 ( also termed TRF3 = TBP-related factor 3; gene name Tbpl2 = TATA box binding protein like 2 ) and TAF3 , which is required for activation of muscle genes ( Deato and Tjian , 2007; Deato et al . , 2008 ) . Further work has revealed that the alternative core factor TAF3 , which is known to recognize histone H3K4me3 - a histone modification associated with active promoters ( Vermeulen et al . , 2007; van Ingen et al . , 2008; Lauberth et al . , 2013; Stijf-Bultsma et al . , 2015 ) - mediates interactions between MyoD , permissive chromatin and PICs at promoters of muscle-specific genes ( Deato et al . , 2008; Yao et al . , 2011 ) . This finding suggested that the widely established paradigm of a universal and prevalent use of TFIID as a promoter-recognizing complex in a variety of somatic cells might undergo drastic change during development . Nevertheless this hypothesis has been challenged by the observation that TBP2 null ( TBP2_KO = TBP2 knock out ) mice do not display any skeletal muscle phenotype ( Gazdag et al . , 2009 ) , indicating that TBP2 is dispensable for developmental myogenesis ( see http://www . europhenome . org/databrowser/viewer . jsp ? set=true&m=true&x=Both Split&ln=Tbp2&project=All&zygosity=All&m=true&l=10386 ) . However , Gazdag et al . did not explore the integrity of the regeneration potential of skeletal muscles in TBP2 null mice during adult life , and thus have not ruled out the possibility that TBP2 can specifically promote the expression of muscle genes in muscle stem ( satellite ) cells ( MuSCs ) - the direct effectors of post-natal and adult skeletal myogenesis ( Chang and Rudnicki , 2014 ) . MuSCs are usually found beneath the basal lamina of unperturbed muscles in a dormant state ( quiescence ) ( Mauro , 1961 ) , but are rapidly activated upon damage to give rise to new , differentiated myofibers through extensive epigenetic reprogramming ( Dilworth and Blais , 2011; Sartorelli and Juan , 2011; Moresi et al . , 2015 ) . Two key molecular events that invariably coincide with MuSC activation and commitment toward myogenic differentiation are ( i ) the expression of skeletal muscle transcription master regulator MyoD ( Zammit et al . , 2004; Tapscott , 1988 ) and ( ii ) the activation of the p38 signaling ( Jones et al . , 2005 ) . These pathways cooperate to promote SWI/SNF-mediated chromatin remodeling and to increase levels of the active chromatin mark H3K4me3 ( Bernstein et al . , 2005 ) at promoters of muscle genes ( Simone , 2004; Rampalli et al . , 2007; Forcales et al . , 2012 ) . Indeed , studies from the Rando group have revealed that in activated MuSCs the large majority of muscle gene promoters show enrichment in H3K4me3 ( Liu et al . , 2013 ) . Collectively , the data described above suggest that the H3K4me3 chromatin mark can mediate TAF3 recruitment to MyoD-target genes in activated MuSCs . Since TAF3 has been proposed as a mediator of TBP2 recruitment to muscle gene promoters ( Deato et al . , 2008; Yao et al . , 2011 ) , these data provide the rationale for investigating whether TBP2 deficiency can impair post-natal and adult skeletal myogenesis . 
Brain stimulation modulates the excitability of neural circuits and drives neuroplasticity . While the local effects of stimulation have been an active area of investigation , the effects on large-scale networks remain largely unexplored . We studied stimulation-induced changes in network dynamics in two macaques . A large-scale optogenetic interface enabled simultaneous stimulation of excitatory neurons and electrocorticographic recording across primary somatosensory ( S1 ) and motor ( M1 ) cortex ( Yazdan-Shahmorad et al . , 2016 ) . We tracked two measures of network connectivity , the network response to focal stimulation and the baseline coherence between pairs of electrodes; these were strongly correlated before stimulation . Within minutes , stimulation in S1 or M1 significantly strengthened the gross functional connectivity between these areas . At a finer scale , stimulation led to heterogeneous connectivity changes across the network . These changes reflected the correlations introduced by stimulation-evoked activity , consistent with Hebbian plasticity models . This work extends Hebbian plasticity models to large-scale circuits , with significant implications for stimulation-based neurorehabilitation .  Many neurological and psychiatric disorders arise from dysfunctional neural dynamics at the network level , which in turn stem from aberrant neural connectivity ( Stam , 2014; Wu et al . , 2016; Edwardson et al . , 2013; Yahata et al . , 2016; DeSalvo et al . , 2014; Skudlarski et al . , 2010 ) . The brain shows marked plasticity across a variety of learning and memory tasks ( Takeuchi et al . , 2014; Bliss et al . , 2014 ) and during recovery after brain injury or stroke ( Edwardson et al . , 2013; Hara , 2015; Murphy and Corbett , 2009 ) , and many have proposed to take advantage of this innate plasticity to treat neural disorders ( Miller et al . , 2010; Jackson et al . , 2006; Lucas and Fetz , 2013; Edwardson et al . , 2013 ) . In principle , brain stimulation protocols can be designed to leverage this plasticity in order to rewire aberrant neural connectivity , potentially curing these disorders . Implementing such treatments requires a better understanding of how stimulation-induced plasticity drives changes in network connectivity and network dynamics . The simple Hebbian model of plasticity ( Donald , 1949 ) and spike-timing dependent versions of it ( Bi and Poo , 2001 ) explain a large body of data on activity-dependent plasticity , including both in vitro ( Massobrio et al . , 2015; Abrahamsson et al . , 2016 ) , and in vivo ( Andersen et al . , 2017; Feldman , 2012; Shulz and Jacob , 2010 ) studies . Despite the extensive work studying Hebbian plasticity at the cellular level , it remains unclear how synaptic plasticity leads to large-scale functional reorganization . Recently , several studies have shown large-scale plasticity following brain stimulation that is consistent with Hebbian mechanisms ( Jackson et al . , 2006; Lucas and Fetz , 2013; Seeman et al . , 2017; Nishimura et al . , 2013; Rebesco and Miller , 2011; Rebesco et al . , 2010; Song et al . , 2013; Lajoie et al . , 2017 ) . In particular , Fetz and colleagues implemented an activity-dependent stimulation protocol , effectively introducing an artificial connection between two sites in the motor cortex ( Jackson et al . , 2006; Lucas and Fetz , 2013 ) . Continuous reinforcement of this artificial connection led to a stable functional change in stimulation-evoked movements , indicating that stimulation induces large-scale plasticity . Recently these results were reproduced in a modeling work at the network level ( Lajoie et al . , 2017 ) . Similar results have been observed using open-loop stimulation protocols to induce targeted plasticity between two cortical sites ( Rebesco and Miller , 2011; Seeman et al . , 2017 ) . Notably , these papers have reported off-target effects , but these were either interpreted as global changes in excitability or were not explained . Although the results from closed-loop and open-loop experiments suggest large-scale plasticity , the underlying neural network changes remain unexplored . Here , we measure connectivity across sensorimotor cortex and track changes in network connectivity in response to open-loop stimulation . This work takes advantage of a large-scale optogenetic interface ( Yazdan-Shahmorad et al . , 2016 ) that enables us to simultaneously stimulate populations of excitatory neurons while recording large-scale μ-electrocorticography ( μ-ECoG ) activity across two brain areas , S1 and M1 . We first establish and compare two measures of functional connectivity that provide complementary views of the mechanisms of plasticity . Next , we investigate how stimulation impacts connectivity between and within cortical areas . We then test whether stimulation-evoked activity drives large-scale network plasticity in a Hebbian manner . The goal of this work is to investigate large-scale functional reorganization following stimulation , which will inform future neurorehabilitation strategies . 
Lesions of primary visual cortex ( V1 ) lead to loss of conscious visual perception with significant impact on human patients . Understanding the neural consequences of such damage may aid the development of rehabilitation methods . In this rare case of a Rhesus macaque ( monkey S ) , likely born without V1 , the animal’s in-group behaviour was unremarkable , but visual task training was impaired . With multi-modal magnetic resonance imaging , visual structures outside of the lesion appeared normal . Visual stimulation under anaesthesia with checkerboards activated lateral geniculate nucleus of monkey S , while full-field moving dots activated pulvinar . Visual cortical activation was sparse but included face patches . Consistently across lesion and control monkeys , functional connectivity analysis revealed an intact network of bilateral dorsal visual areas temporally correlated with V5/MT activation , even without V1 . Despite robust subcortical responses to visual stimulation , we found little evidence for strengthened subcortical input to V5/MT supporting residual visual function or blindsight-like phenomena .  Primary visual cortex ( V1 ) of primates is the major gateway for feedforward input of visual information from the retina via the lateral geniculate nucleus ( LGN ) into a network of over 30 extrastriate visual areas ( Felleman and Van Essen , 1991; Markov et al . , 2014; Schmidt et al . , 2018 ) . V1 contains a complete , high resolution retinotopic map and contributes to cortical processing by computing local spatio-temporal correlations of the input , which is evident in its neural representations of local visual features ( orientation , spatial frequency , temporal frequency , direction , colour , binocular disparity ) ( e . g . Hubel and Wiesel , 1959; Movshon et al . , 1978; Parker et al . , 2016 ) . The direct contribution of V1 signals to conscious sight is a subject of ongoing scientific debate ( e . g . Stoerig , 2006; Ffytche and Zeki , 2011 ) and is thought to involve feedback as well as feedforward input to V1 ( Ress and Heeger , 2003 ) . At the centre of this debate have been patients with V1 lesions exhibiting residual vision - often without visual awareness - a condition termed Blindsight ( Riddoch , 1917; Weiskrantz et al . , 1974; Cowey , 2010 ) . Previous data on bilaterally cortically blind macaque monkeys suggest that there is a dissociation between use of vision for guiding movement and for awareness and recognition ( Leopold , 2012 ) . Specifically , monkey Helen , who had V1 removed bilaterally , was able to navigate around the world but unable to recognise faces or food ( Humphrey , 1974 ) . The lesions to Helen were made in adulthood , which may have affected the amount of residual vision . Macaque monkeys who received a unilateral V1 lesion at two months of age exhibited more residual vision as adults than monkeys who received their lesions in adulthood ( Moore et al . , 1996 ) . Cortical blindness due to bilateral damage to the primary visual cortex of humans is fortunately rare . There are a few cases of damage acquired in adulthood , some of whom have been extensively studied ( de Gelder et al . , 2008; Hervais-Adelman et al . , 2015; Arcaro et al . , 2018 ) , but also a number of children who acquired lesions congenitally or through perinatal stroke ( Mundinano et al . , 2017 ) . The presence of residual visual function suggests that functional visual networks can develop or be sustained in the absence of the main visual input to cortex . In monkeys , in the absence of primary visual cortex , a number of potential pathways have been proposed to convey visual information from the eyes to extrastriate visual cortex . Direct input to extrastriate visual cortex bypassing V1 may arise from the lateral geniculate nucleus ( LGN ) or the pulvinar nucleus directly to extrastriate visual areas V2 , V3 , V4 , V5/MT and inferotemporal cortex ( Wong-Riley , 1976; Sincich et al . , 2004; Kaas and Lyon , 2007; Warner et al . , 2010; Gattass et al . , 2014 ) . In humans , both pulvinar and LGN inputs to V5/MT have been implicated ( de Gelder et al . , 2008; Ajina et al . , 2015b ) . In addition to its direct retinal input , the LGN also receives projections from the superior colliculus ( SC ) ( Harting et al . , 1991; Stepniewska et al . , 1999 ) . The pulvinar nucleus receives input from the SC , although likely not into the appropriate subdivision for projectiions to V5/MT , and pulvinar might receive surviving early projections directly from the retina ( Stepniewska et al . , 1999; Warner et al . , 2010 ) . It has been suggested that early-life V1 lesions in particular might lead to less pruning of the retina-pulvinar-V5/MT pathway and that this might contribute to ‘blindsight’ ( Warner et al . , 2015 ) . Macaque monkey S in the current study showed bilaterally enlarged lateral ventricles that appeared to have expanded into space usually occupied by V1 . This gross pathology of the cerebral cortex was most likely to have been acquired developmentally or perinatally . Previous data have implicated roles in residual vision for the LGN , pulvinar , SC and the extrastriate visual cortical networks including motion area V5/MT . Our aim here was to use magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) to determine the integrity of the structural and functional networks underlying residual visual function in this monkey with a long-standing anatomical lesion of primary visual cortex . 
The ability to recognize foreign double-stranded ( ds ) DNA of pathogenic origin in the intracellular environment is an essential defense mechanism of the human innate immune system . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying distinction between foreign DNA and host genomic material inside the nucleus are not understood . By combining biochemical assays and single-molecule techniques , we show that the nuclear innate immune sensor IFI16 one-dimensionally tracks long stretches of exposed foreign dsDNA to assemble into supramolecular signaling platforms . We also demonstrate that nucleosomes represent barriers that prevent IFI16 from targeting host DNA by directly interfering with these one-dimensional movements . This unique scanning-assisted assembly mechanism allows IFI16 to distinguish friend from foe and assemble into oligomers efficiently and selectively on foreign DNA .  The host innate immune system detects infection by directly recognizing molecular signatures associated with pathogens ( Janeway and Medzhitov , 2002; Medzhitov and Janeway , 2000 ) . Remarkably , such signatures include universal building blocks of all life , such as DNA and RNA ( Janeway and Medzhitov , 2002; Orzalli and Knipe , 2014; Paludan and Bowie , 2013 ) . In the cytoplasm , the immune system relies on the absence of endogenous DNA , and thus marks all detected DNA as 'foreign' ( nonself ) ( Orzalli and Knipe , 2014; Paludan and Bowie , 2013 ) . However , DNA viruses often evade the cytosolic detection machineries , as their genomes are not exposed until reaching the nucleus ( Orzalli and Knipe , 2014; Paludan and Bowie , 2013 ) . The host counters this infection strategy in the nucleus by directly assembling supramolecular signaling platforms that trigger inflammatory responses on invading foreign DNA , but not on its own genomic material ( Johnson et al . , 2013; Li et al . , 2012; Kerur et al . , 2011 ) . Although key players that target foreign dsDNA in the host nucleus have been identified ( Orzalli and Knipe , 2014; Paludan and Bowie , 2013 ) , the molecular mechanisms by which these sensors distinguish self from nonself dsDNA remain unknown . The interferon-inducible protein 16 ( IFI16 ) is a key innate immune sensor that detects foreign dsDNA and uses it as a scaffold to assemble supramolecular signaling platforms in both the host nucleus and cytoplasm ( Unterholzner et al . , 2010; Johnson et al . , 2013; Li et al . , 2012; Kerur et al . , 2011; Orzalli et al . , 2012 ) ( Figure 1A ) . IFI16 plays a central role in defense against a number of pathogens ( e . g herpes simplex virus-1 ) ( Unterholzner et al . , 2010; Johnson et al . , 2013; Li et al . , 2012; Kerur et al . , 2011; Orzalli et al . , 2012 ) . On the other hand , persistent IFI16 signaling is associated with autoimmunity ( e . g . Sjögren’s syndrome ) ( Mondini et al . , 2007; Choubey et al . , 2010; Mondini et al . , 2010; Gugliesi et al . , 2013; Smith and Jefferies , 2014 ) . The molecular mechanisms by which IFI16 selectively targets foreign dsDNA remain unknown . To establish a functional signaling platform , IFI16 must overcome two challenges . First , individual IFI16 molecules must be able to locate one another on large pathogen genomes with sizes ranging from 105 to 106 base pairs ( bps ) . Second and more importantly , this assembly mechanism can only take place on foreign dsDNA and must be inhibited on host dsDNA ( Figure 1A ) . Here , we report the observation of a unifying molecular mechanism that explains how IFI16 resolves these central issues in initiating its foreign-dsDNA sensing pathways . 10 . 7554/eLife . 11721 . 003Figure 1 . IFI16 assembles faster on longer dsDNA . ( A ) Top: IFI16 is composed of three functional domains flanked by unstructured linkers , namely one pyrin domain ( PYD ) and two dsDNA-binding Hin domains ( HinA and HinB; Hin: hematopoietic interferon-inducible nuclear antigen ) . Bottom: IFI16 detects foreign dsDNA from invading pathogens in both the host nucleus and cytoplasm . ( B ) Top: a cartoon scheme for FRET experiments . The two differentially colored ovals represent fluorescently ( Dylight-550 and Dylight-650 ) labeled IFI16 . Bottom: The time-dependent changes in the emission ratio between FRET donor and acceptor labeled IFI16 ( 50 nM ) were monitored at 33 µg/ml of each dsDNA ( e . g . sixfold higher than the dissociation constant for 39-bp dsDNA [Morrone et al . , 2014] ) . Lines are fits to a first-order exponential equation ( see Figure 1—figure supplement 1 for 25 nM protein ) . All shown representative experiments were performed at least three times . ( C ) A plot of observed assembly rates ( kassms ) vs . dsDNA-sizes ( see also Figure 1—figure supplement 1 ) . ( D ) 1D-diffusion assisted assembly mechanism can explain the observed assembly profile of IFI16 . 1 . At the same mass-concentrations , the number of individual dsDNA fragments present in each assay is inversely proportional to the length of dsDNA . 2 . Individual IFI16 molecules initially bind dsDNA at random positions and diffuse one-dimensionally while searching for other respective protomers; the number of IFI16 residing on the same dsDNA fragment should be proportional to the length of dsDNA ( e . g . there are four times more individual 150-bp fragments than 600-bp fragments ) 3 . IFI16 fails to assemble into an oligomer on dsDNA shorter than 60 bp ( indicated by a red arrow pointing left ) . The saturating rates can be explained if the final FRET signals arise from formation of distinct optimal oligomers . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 11721 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 11721 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . FRET assembly assays using 25 nM donor and acceptor labeled IFI16 compared to 50 nM in Figure 1B . Shown is a representative of three experiments , and the calculated rates are listed in Supplementary file 1A . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 11721 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 11721 . 005Video 1 . Single Cy5-labeled IFI16 protein ( 1 nM ) moving on double-biotinylated dsλ-DNA at 300 mM KCl ( without flow ) . The movie is played at 5x acceleration . This video is related to Figure 2 . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 11721 . 005 
Spatially targeted optical microproteomics ( STOMP ) is a novel proteomics technique for interrogating micron-scale regions of interest ( ROIs ) in mammalian tissue , with no requirement for genetic manipulation . Methanol or formalin-fixed specimens are stained with fluorescent dyes or antibodies to visualize ROIs , then soaked in solutions containing the photo-tag: 4-benzoylbenzyl-glycyl-hexahistidine . Confocal imaging along with two photon excitation are used to covalently couple photo-tags to all proteins within each ROI , to a resolution of 0 . 67 µm in the xy-plane and 1 . 48 µm axially . After tissue solubilization , photo-tagged proteins are isolated and identified by mass spectrometry . As a test case , we examined amyloid plaques in an Alzheimer's disease ( AD ) mouse model and a post-mortem AD case , confirming known plaque constituents and discovering new ones . STOMP can be applied to various biological samples including cell lines , primary cell cultures , ex vivo specimens , biopsy samples , and fixed post-mortem tissue .  Pathological protein deposits have a long history as hallmarks of neurodegenerative disease . Early methods used to identify these deposits include the silver stain introduced by Golgi ( 1873 ) , and Virchow's iodine–sulfuric acid stain for starch ( Virchow , 1854 ) that led to the coining of the term amyloid ( Virchow , 1855 ) . More specialized stains and labels have emerged which have begun to probe the structure and composition of pathological protein deposits . The stains Congo red and thioflavin S ( ThS ) were discovered later and remain in use ( reviewed by Westermark ( Sipe and Westermark , 2005 ) and Tanskanen ( Tanskanen , 2013 ) ) , specifically identifying deposits containing a particular structural motif: amyloid β-pleated sheets . Beyond mere detection lies comprehensive identification of the protein components of these deposits; biochemical analyses of the deposits have produced transformative results in the field of neurodegeneration research . Two classic examples include the discovery of the prion protein and formulation of the protein-only hypothesis of prion disease ( Bolton et al . , 1982 ) , and the discovery of the Alzheimer amyloid peptide ( Aβ ) ( Glenner and Wong , 1984 ) and formulation of the amyloid cascade hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease ( AD , reviewed by Musiek and Holtzman ( Musiek and Holtzman , 2015 ) ) . More recently , there was the discovery that the RNA/DNA binding protein TDP-43 ( transactive response DNA binding protein 43 kDa ) is a significant component of ubiquitin-positive intraneuronal inclusions in certain cases of frontotemporal dementia ( FTD ) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) ( Neumann et al . , 2006 ) . This discovery helped establish these diseases as spectrum disorders ( Mackenzie , 2007 ) , it led to the identification of TDP-43 mutations that are causative for ALS and FTD ( Sreedharan et al . , 2008 ) and established a role for RNA metabolism in ALS/FTD pathogenesis ( Lagier-Tourenne and Cleveland , 2009; Mackenzie et al . , 2010 ) . Identification of the protein components of pathological deposits has traditionally involved the partial biochemical purification of detergent-insoluble proteins present in a tissue specimen followed by protein sequencing . Immunohistochemical methods are then used to confirm that the identified proteins are bona fide constituents of the pathological deposits . These methods require large amounts of sometimes-scarce pathological tissue and identification of novel protein components can require increasingly elaborate , time-consuming , and costly protocols . For example , the discovery of TDP-43 in ubiquitin-positive intraneuronal inclusions required the generation of ∼1000 monoclonal antibodies , which were used to screen thousands of tissue sections by immunohistochemistry , to obtain a single monoclonal antibody that specifically labeled ubiquitin-positive intraneuronal inclusions ( Neumann et al . , 2006 ) . That antibody was used for the proteomic identification of TDP-43 from the detergent-insoluble fraction of pathological tissue homogenates , and confirmatory staining with commercial TDP-43 antibodies was required for validation . In addition to being costly and labor intensive , another major limitation of biochemical purification of protein deposits is that soluble protein components associated with the core aggregates are likely to be lost during fractionation . Identifying deposit-associated soluble proteins could further our understanding of disease mechanisms . A different strategy that can preserve some of the deposit-associated soluble proteins is laser capture microdissection ( LCM ) , in which protein deposits are lifted intact out of sections of the fixed specimen; their protein compositions are then determined by mass spectrometry ( Gozal et al . , 2006 ) . The resolution of LCM is ∼10 µm in the horizontal plane and captures the entire thickness of the tissue section along the vertical axis . Thus , for features smaller than ∼10 µm—such as inclusion bodies , small amyloid plaques , narrow fibers , and other irregularly shaped structures—LCM analysis permits enrichment but not complete isolation of target proteins; samples are diluted with extraneous surrounding material . For example , when capturing even a relatively large—3 μm in diameter—inclusion body with a single 10 µm LCM spot , only ∼10% of the recovered protein is from the pathology and 90% from the surrounding cellular milieu . LCM has nevertheless proven useful , however , in the proteomic analysis of systemic amyloidosis , where the amyloid deposits are very large and the feature size is typically ∼50 , 000 μm2 in area ( Sethi et al . , 2012 , 2013 ) . Mass spectrometry imaging and its variants can also provide spatially resolved mass spectrometry analysis by directly coupling imaging with laser ablation and achieving 1 mm–10 μm resolution ( Stoeckli et al . , 2001; Wiseman et al . , 2006; Wucher et al . , 2007 ) , but it is usually used to look for specific targets rather than in discovery mode . Recently , proximity labeling techniques such as Bio-ID and APEX have provided high spatial resolution to mass spectrometry , and these techniques have been used to elucidate the composition of several difficult to purify organelles ( Roux et al . , 2012; Rhee et al . , 2013; Firat-Karalar et al . , 2014; Hung et al . , 2014 ) . However , proximity labeling relies on genetic manipulations to express an exogenous fusion protein to label adjacent components; this protein must be specifically and accurately targeted into a particular biological structure . Imperfect localization , especially in rare structures , results in selective labeling of neighbors outside of the target region yielding false positive associations . Many of these approaches have been brought to bear on amyloid ( senile ) plaques in AD brain tissue , in an attempt to identify core components , if any , in addition to Aβ . Early LCM studies utilizing 2D gel electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry have detected a modest number of plaque-associated proteins , including an assortment of proteins associated with cell signaling , chaperone function , membrane trafficking , and proteolysis ( Liao et al . , 2004 ) . A more recent LCM study has suggested that amyloid plaques in AD are highly homogenous structures that are composed almost exclusively of Aβ ( Söderberg et al . , 2006 ) . The latter study , however , employed sample washing steps with 1% SDS , which may strip away soluble plaque-associated proteins . Finally , a recent attempt to capture more plaque-associated proteins potentially lost to LCM examined the sarkosyl-insoluble fraction of brain samples from patients with AD and appropriate controls ( Gozal et al . , 2009 ) . Altered levels of eleven specific proteins were identified by this approach but colocalization with amyloid plaques was difficult to validate in many cases—not all insoluble proteins within the brain will necessarily originate from senile plaques . A recent proteomic analysis of fractions obtained from differential centrifugation procedures that yield fractions enriched in post-synaptic proteins have demonstrated that the post-synaptic protein IRSp53 was highly down-regulated in AD ( Zhou et al . , 2013 ) . While extant LCM and biochemical fractionation studies have identified candidate plaque-associated proteins , significant mechanistic insights have not been produced . We have developed a semi-automated technique called spatially targeted optical microproteomics ( STOMP ) , which combines two-photon laser scanning microscopy with photochemical affinity labeling and mass spectrometry . While two-photon excitation has previously been used to drive microscopic , 3D-resolved photochemistry ( Lee et al . , 2008 ) , STOMP represents the first application of this technique to affinity photolabeling , offering single-micron-scale three-dimensional resolution that is an order of magnitude better than the current state of the art LCM . In addition to providing clues to the etiology of neurodegenerative disease , this new proteomic technique also has great potential to advance research in cell biology by yielding the composition of small features that are not amenable to biochemical purification . We sought to create an unbiased discovery technique that would: ( 1 ) have high spatial resolution , ( 2 ) target any identifiable or user-defined spatial region in a biological sample , ( 3 ) forgo the need for genetic modification , ( 4 ) have sufficient sensitivity to detect minor species within the sample , and ( 5 ) have sufficient specificity such that most hits can be readily validated as being enriched in the biological structure of interest . Because STOMP does not require genetic manipulation , this technique is applicable to a large variety of biological samples that run the gamut from cell lines , primary cell cultures , ex vivo specimens , human biopsy samples to fixed post-mortem human tissue . 
Disruption of the Frizzled3 ( Fz3 ) gene leads to defects in axonal growth in the VIIth and XIIth cranial motor nerves , the phrenic nerve , and the dorsal motor nerve in fore- and hindlimbs . In Fz3−/− limbs , dorsal axons stall at a precise location in the nerve plexus , and , in contrast to the phenotypes of several other axon path-finding mutants , Fz3−/− dorsal axons do not reroute to other trajectories . Affected motor neurons undergo cell death 2 days prior to the normal wave of developmental cell death that coincides with innervation of muscle targets , providing in vivo evidence for the idea that developing neurons with long-range axons are programmed to die unless their axons arrive at intermediate targets on schedule . These experiments implicate planar cell polarity ( PCP ) signaling in motor axon growth and they highlight the question of how PCP proteins , which form cell–cell complexes in epithelia , function in the dynamic context of axonal growth .  The vertebrate nervous system is highly evolved to extract , integrate , retrieve , and transform information , a functional sophistication that is mirrored in the complexity of its underlying neural circuits . These circuits are produced by precisely orchestrated patterns of neuronal proliferation , migration , and differentiation , and by the establishment of specific synaptic connections between neurons and their targets . For neurons with distant targets , making the appropriate connections depends on accurate long-range navigation by their growing axons ( Dickson , 2002; O’Donnell et al . , 2009 ) . Motor neurons represent an attractive system in which to study axonal growth and guidance because motor axons generally grow over great distances along highly stereotyped pathways . Motor neurons in the brainstem extend their axons within cranial nerves to control muscles involved in feeding , facial expression , and eye , neck , and head movements ( Guthrie , 2007 ) . Motor neurons in the spinal cord are arranged in longitudinal columns along the rostrocaudal axis , and the neurons in different columns innervate distinct peripheral targets ( Landmesser , 1978; Bonanomi and Pfaff , 2010 ) . Spinal motor neurons in the lateral motor column ( LMC ) innervate the limbs and are therefore present only at brachial and lumbar levels . The LMC is divided into lateral ( LMCL ) and medial ( LMCM ) divisions , which innervate , respectively , the dorsal and ventral limb musculature . For motor axons that innervate the limb musculature , different signaling systems—including the Cxcl12/Cxcr4 , GDNF/Ret , Ephrin/Eph , and Semaphorin/Neuropilin ( Npn ) systems—provide information at different decision points during axonal navigation ( Helmbacher et al . , 2000; Huber et al . , 2005; Lieberam et al . , 2005; Kramer et al . , 2006; Luria et al . , 2008; Bonanomi et al . , 2012; reviewed in Bonanomi and Pfaff , 2010 ) . Cxcl12/Cxcr4 signaling is required for the initial emergence of motor axons from the ventral face of the spinal cord , with ventral axons expressing the Cxcr4 receptor and thereby conferring responsiveness to Cxcl12 , which is produced by the adjacent mesenchyme . Sema3A , which is produced throughout the limb bud mesenchyme , acts on Npn1-expressing motor axons shortly after these axons emerge from the spinal cord to control the timing of outgrowth and axon fasciculation; and Sema3F , which is produced in the dorsal limb mesenchyme , repels Npn2-expressing LMCM axons to promote a ventral trajectory . The dorsal/ventral decision is also controlled by cooperative and mutually reinforcing interactions between Ephrin/Eph and GDNF/Ret signaling . GDNF , which is produced in the dorsal limb bud , attracts LMCL axons , which express high levels of the Ret receptor . Ephrin-A , which is produced in the ventral limb bud , repels LMCL axons , which express EphA4 . At present , the signaling pathways that determine more distal axon branching patterns and control the specificity of nerve-muscle recognition remain largely unknown . The experiments described here reveal an important role for Frizzled signaling in motor axon growth . Frizzled receptors are found throughout the animal kingdom and mediate at least three distinct types of signaling: ( 1 ) canonical signaling , in which Wnt binding to Frizzled activates an Lrp co-receptor to elicit stabilization of cytosolic beta-catenin , which then migrates to the nucleus to control gene expression in cooperation with LEF/TCF transcription factors; ( 2 ) tissue polarity or planar cell polarity ( PCP ) signaling , which acts in many epithelia and features the asymmetric localization of Frizzled and several other proteins in plasma membrane complexes to control cytoskeletal organization; and ( 3 ) Wnt/calcium signaling , the least understood of the three pathways , in which Wnt binding to Frizzled receptors leads to release of intracellular calcium ( Angers and Moon , 2009; Nusse , 2012 ) . The PCP pathway was discovered in Drosophila as a regulator of cuticular hair and bristle polarity ( Simons and Mlodzik , 2008 ) . The core set of PCP proteins defined by the Drosophila experiments—Frizzled , Dishevelled , Van Gogh/Strabismus , Prickle , Flamingo/Starry Night , and Diego—are conserved in vertebrates . Over the past 15 years , studies in mice , frogs , and zebrafish have shown that core PCP genes play central roles in a wide variety of developmental processes that involve directional information: coordinating cell movements during neural tube elongation and closure ( convergent/extension movements ) , setting up the global orientation of hairs within mammalian skin , orienting motile cilia within epithelia to produce coherent fluid flow , and orienting asymmetric bundles of stereocilia on the apical faces of auditory and vestibular sensory hair cells ( Wang and Nathans , 2007; Bayly and Axelrod , 2011; Goodrich and Strutt , 2011 ) . In mammals , two of the ten Frizzled family members—Frizzled3 ( Fz3 ) and Fz6—appear to be devoted largely or exclusively to tissue polarity signaling . Fz6 controls hair orientation , and Fz3 and Fz6 act redundantly to control inner ear sensory hair cell orientation and neural tube closure ( Guo et al . , 2004; Wang et al . , 2006a ) . Among Frizzled receptors , Fz3 is unique in its role in controlling axon guidance in the central nervous system ( CNS ) , where it is required for the development of major fiber tracts , including the corpus callosum , and the thalamocortical , corticothalamic , and nigrostriatal tracts ( Wang et al . , 2002 , 2006b ) . Fz3 appears to be part of a system that provides directional information to growing axons , as indicated by the observation that in Fz3−/− embryos commissural sensory axons in the spinal cord orient randomly instead of turning rostrally after midline crossing ( Lyuksyutova et al . , 2003 ) . Virtually identical CNS axon phenotypes are observed in embryos lacking Celsr3 , one of three mammalian homologues of the core PCP protein Flamingo/Starry Night ( Tissir et al . , 2005 ) . Fz3 and Celsr1-Celsr3 are also required for caudal and tangential migration of VIIth cranial ( facial branchiomotor ) nerve neurons within the developing brainstem ( Qu et al . , 2010 ) . In the periphery , Fz3 and Celsr3 are required for correctly orienting enteric neurons within the gastrointestinal tract , and Fz3 is required for the development of sympathetic chain ganglia and innervation of sympathetic targets ( Armstrong et al . 2011; Sasselli et al . , 2013 ) . In the present work , we have identified a hitherto unrecognized role for Fz3 in the growth of motor axons . Using conventional and conditional loss-of-function alleles for Fz3 , we show that Fz3 is required for a subset of cranial and spinal motor axons to grow to their peripheral targets . In the limb , the absence of Fz3 leads to a specific stalling defect among LMCL axons that is distinct from the phenotypes produced by defects in several other signaling systems active in limb axon guidance . Affected cranial and spinal motor neurons die shortly after their axons stall , providing in vivo evidence for the general idea that as growing axons arrive at intermediate targets essential survival signals are relayed to their cell bodies . 
Transposable elements ( TEs ) are thought to have helped establish gene regulatory networks . Both the embryonic and extraembryonic lineages of the early mouse embryo have seemingly co-opted TEs as enhancers , but there is little evidence that they play significant roles in gene regulation . Here we tested a set of long terminal repeat TE families for roles as enhancers in mouse embryonic and trophoblast stem cells . Epigenomic and transcriptomic data suggested that a large number of TEs helped to establish tissue-specific gene expression programmes . Genetic editing of individual TEs confirmed a subset of these regulatory relationships . However , a wider survey via CRISPR interference of RLTR13D6 elements in embryonic stem cells revealed that only a minority play significant roles in gene regulation . Our results suggest that a subset of TEs are important for gene regulation in early mouse development , and highlight the importance of functional experiments when evaluating gene regulatory roles of TEs .  Our knowledge of the tissue-specific regulatory landscape of genomes has vastly increased over the last 10 years , thanks in part to large efforts from consortia such as ENCODE and NIH Roadmap ( ENCODE Project Consortium , 2012; Kundaje et al . , 2015 ) . But whilst such mapping efforts have been instrumental in categorising the non-coding genome into different types of biochemical activity , our understanding of the associated functional roles remains limited . One of the grand challenges of the post-ENCODE era has been to ascribe regulatory function to the biochemically active non-coding portion of genomes . This question is particularly pertinent to transposable elements ( TEs ) ( Elliott et al . , 2014; Doolittle and Brunet , 2017 ) , which often display marks of regulatory activity in a species-specific manner ( Jacques et al . , 2013; Carninci , 2014 ) . On one hand , successful TEs are expected to display such active profiles , which serve the selfish interests of TEs but may act neutrally with respect to host fitness . On the other , TEs can be co-opted ( or exapted ) by the host to serve gene regulatory roles , such as alternative promoters or enhancers ( Chuong et al . , 2017 ) . The distinction between these two scenarios relies on approaches that query the causal links between TEs , gene expression and phenotype . Primarily based on epigenomic data , evidence to date suggests that particular TE families have contributed to the evolution of tissue-specific gene regulatory networks in contexts such as early development ( Kunarso et al . , 2010 ) , placentation ( Chuong et al . , 2013 ) , pregnancy ( Lynch et al . , 2011 ) and innate immunity ( Chuong et al . , 2016 ) , amongst others . Transcription factor ( TF ) binding motifs hosted within the regulatory portion of TEs enable their expression in specific tissues ( Sundaram et al . , 2014; Sundaram et al . , 2017 ) , presumably in a manner that enables vertical inheritance of new TE insertions via the germline . In this respect , mammalian preimplantation development is a seemingly well exploited context for TE expansion , driving genetic conflicts with the host , as well as creating opportunities for TE exaptation ( Rodriguez-Terrones and Torres-Padilla , 2018 ) . In the mouse , TE-derived regulatory activity has been implicated at multiple stages of preimplantation development . Namely , MERVL elements become highly activated upon zygotic genome activation and are thought to play a role in the establishment of the 2-cell stage expression programme ( Macfarlan et al . , 2012 ) . Transition from the 2-cell stage and development progression to the blastocyst stage appear to depend on LINE-1 expression ( Jachowicz et al . , 2017; Percharde et al . , 2018 ) . Finally , work from embryonic and trophoblast stem cells ( ESCs and TSCs , respectively ) , suggests a divergence in TE regulatory activity that is concomitant with the separation of the embryonic and extraembryonic lineages at the blastocyst stage ( Kunarso et al . , 2010; Chuong et al . , 2013 ) . In ESCs , TE families such as RLTR13D6 bind key ESC TFs ( e . g . , OCT4 , NANOG ) , whereas a distinct subset ( e . g . , RLTR13D5 ) bind factors essential for the maintenance of the TSC state ( CDX2 , ELF5 , EOMES ) . These elements are enriched for histone marks that are characteristic of distal enhancers and lie near genes that are expressed in the lineages where they are active ( Kunarso et al . , 2010; Chuong et al . , 2013 ) . TE enhancer activity depends on the cooperative action of multiple TFs , whose binding motifs appear to have been already present in the corresponding ancestral TE insertions ( Sundaram et al . , 2017 ) . However , it remains unclear to what extent such lineage-specific TEs are important for maintaining gene expression programmes during preimplantation development . Here we have tested the gene regulatory function of specific TE families in ESCs and TSCs using genetic and epigenetic editing approaches , and compared them with predictions from extensive analyses of epigenomic and transcriptomic data . We identify a number of TEs that are important to drive expression of lineage-specific genes . However , our data suggest that these constitute a minority of all the putative TE-derived enhancers identified through bioinformatic analyses , highlighting the importance of functional tests when assessing the contribution of TEs to gene regulatory networks . 
C4 photosynthesis has independently evolved from the ancestral C3 pathway in at least 60 plant lineages , but , as with other complex traits , how it evolved is unclear . Here we show that the polyphyletic appearance of C4 photosynthesis is associated with diverse and flexible evolutionary paths that group into four major trajectories . We conducted a meta-analysis of 18 lineages containing species that use C3 , C4 , or intermediate C3–C4 forms of photosynthesis to parameterise a 16-dimensional phenotypic landscape . We then developed and experimentally verified a novel Bayesian approach based on a hidden Markov model that predicts how the C4 phenotype evolved . The alternative evolutionary histories underlying the appearance of C4 photosynthesis were determined by ancestral lineage and initial phenotypic alterations unrelated to photosynthesis . We conclude that the order of C4 trait acquisition is flexible and driven by non-photosynthetic drivers . This flexibility will have facilitated the convergent evolution of this complex trait .  The convergent evolution of complex traits is surprisingly common , with examples including camera-like eyes of cephalopods , vertebrates , and cnidaria ( Kozmik et al . , 2008 ) , mimicry in invertebrates and vertebrates ( Santos et al . , 2003; Wilson et al . , 2012 ) and the different photosynthetic machineries of plants ( Sage et al . , 2011a ) . While the polyphyletic origin of simple traits ( Hill et al . , 2006; Steiner et al . , 2009 ) is underpinned by flexibility in the underlying molecular mechanisms , the extent to which this applies to complex traits is less clear . C4 photosynthesis is both highly complex , involving alterations to leaf anatomy , cellular ultrastructure , and photosynthetic metabolism , and also convergent , being found in at least 60 independent lineages of angiosperms ( Sage et al . , 2011a ) . As the emergence of the entire C4 phenotype cannot be comprehensively explored experimentally , C4 photosynthesis is an ideal system for the mathematical modelling of complex trait evolution as transitions on an underlying phenotype landscape . Furthermore , understanding the evolutionary events that have generated C4 photosynthesis on many independent occasions has the potential to inform approaches being undertaken to engineer C4 photosynthesis into C3 crop species ( Hibberd et al . , 2008 ) . The C4 pathway is estimated to have first evolved between 32 and 25 million years ago ( Christin et al . , 2011b ) in response to multiple ecological drivers , including decreasing atmospheric CO2 concentration ( Vicentini et al . , 2008 ) . C4 species have since radiated to represent the most productive crops and native vegetation on the planet because modifications to their leaves increase the efficiency of photosynthesis in the sub-tropics and tropics ( Edwards et al . , 2010 ) . In C4 plants , photosynthetic efficiency is improved compared with C3 species because significant alterations to leaf anatomy , cell biology and biochemistry lead to higher concentrations of CO2 around the primary carboxylase RuBisCO Slack and Hatch , 1967; Langdale , 2011 ) . The morphology of C4 leaves is typically modified into so-called Kranz anatomy that consists of repeating units of vein , bundle sheath ( BS ) and mesophyll ( M ) cells ( Hattersley , 1984; Langdale , 2011 ) ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1 ) . Photosynthetic metabolism becomes modified and compartmentalised between the M and BS , with M cells lacking RuBisCO but instead containing high activities of the alternate carboxylase PEPC to generate C4 acids . The diffusion of these acids followed by their decarboxylation in BS cells around RuBisCO increases CO2 supply and therefore photosynthetic efficiency ( Zhu et al . , 2008 ) . C4 acids are decarboxylated by at least one of three enzymes within BS cells: NADP- or NAD-dependent malic enzymes ( NADP-ME or NAD-ME respectively ) , or phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase ( PCK ) ( Hatch et al . , 1975 ) . Specific lineages of C4 species have typically been classified into one of three sub-types , based on the activity of these decarboxylases , as well as anatomical and cellular traits that consistently correlate with each other ( Furbank , 2011 ) . The genetic mechanisms underlying the evolution of cell-specific gene expression associated with the separation of photosynthetic metabolism between M and BS cells involve both alterations to cis-elements and trans-acting factors ( Akyildiz et al . , 2007; Brown et al . , 2011; Kajala et al . , 2012; Williams et al . , 2012 ) . Phylogenetically independent lineages of C4 plants have co-opted homologous mechanisms to generate cell specificity ( Brown et al . , 2011 ) as well as the altered allosteric regulation of C4 enzymes ( Christin et al . , 2007 ) indicating that parallel evolution underpins at least part of the convergent C4 syndrome . However , while a substantial amount of work has addressed the molecular alterations that generate the biochemical differences between C3 and C4 plants ( Williams et al . , 2012 ) much less is known about the order and flexibility with which phenotypic traits important for C4 photosynthesis are acquired ( Sage et al . , 2012 ) . Clues to this question exist in the form of C3–C4 intermediates , species exhibiting characteristics of both C3 or C4 photosynthesis , such as the activity or localisation of C4 cycle enzymes ( Hattersley and Stone , 1986 ) , the possession of one or more anatomical or cellular adaptations associated with C4 photosynthesis ( Moore et al . , 1987 ) , or combinations of both ( e . g . , Kennedy et al . , 1980; Kotayeva et al . , 2010 ) . To address these unknown aspects of C4 evolutionary history , we combined the concept of considering evolutionary paths as stochastic processes on complex adaptive landscapes ( Wright , 1932; Gavrilets , 1997 ) with the analysis of extant C3–C4 intermediate species to develop a predictive model of how the full C4 phenotype evolved . 
Hydrolysis of nucleoside triphosphates releases similar amounts of energy . However , ATP hydrolysis is typically used for energy-intensive reactions , whereas GTP hydrolysis typically functions as a switch . SpoIVA is a bacterial cytoskeletal protein that hydrolyzes ATP to polymerize irreversibly during Bacillus subtilis sporulation . SpoIVA evolved from a TRAFAC class of P-loop GTPases , but the evolutionary pressure that drove this change in nucleotide specificity is unclear . We therefore reengineered the nucleotide-binding pocket of SpoIVA to mimic its ancestral GTPase activity . SpoIVAGTPase functioned properly as a GTPase but failed to polymerize because it did not form an NDP-bound intermediate that we report is required for polymerization . Further , incubation of SpoIVAGTPase with limiting ATP did not promote efficient polymerization . This approach revealed that the nucleotide base , in addition to the energy released from hydrolysis , can be critical in specific biological functions . We also present data suggesting that increased levels of ATP relative to GTP at the end of sporulation was the evolutionary pressure that drove the change in nucleotide preference in SpoIVA .  Nucleotides have various functions in the cell , as coenzymes , signaling messengers , and the building blocks of genetic material . Nucleoside triphosphates ( NTPs ) store energy in the form of their phosphate bonds . The free energy of the hydrolysis reaction involving the bond between the β- and the γ-phosphates is approximately 30 kJ/mol ( Berg et al . , 2007 ) and is used to drive a variety of energy-consuming biochemical reactions . Despite this similarity between different NTPs , enzymes usually display strong preferences toward a specific NTP . For example , adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) in general is the principal source of energy in a cell and is used by motor proteins to perform work , whereas hydrolysis of guanosine triphosphate ( GTP ) typically functions as a timer or switch , such as in proteins involved in signal transduction ( Alberts , 2002 ) . One explanation for this dichotomy is that the relative intracellular abundance of ATP in a cell drove the evolution of motors to use it as an energy source ( Bennett et al . , 2009; Rudoni et al . , 2001; Traut , 1994 ) . Consistent with that notion , the eukaryotic ATPase motor proteins myosin and kinesin are evolutionarily members of the TRAFAC class of GTPases , having emerged from an ancestral GTPase , but have switched their nucleotide specificity to utilizing the more abundant nucleotide ATP to perform their energy-intensive functions ( Leipe et al . , 2002 ) . In this report , we examine an unusual bacterial ATPase named SpoIVA ( Ramamurthi and Losick , 2008; Roels et al . , 1992 ) that is also from the TRAFAC class of GTPases and is exclusively found in sporulating members of the Firmicutes phylum ( Castaing et al . , 2013 ) . We had previously shown that within the TRAFAC group , SpoIVA is closest to the Era GTPases ( Castaing et al . , 2013 ) which are switches involved in the maturation of 16S rRNA and assembly of the 30S ribosomal subunit and universally conserved across bacteria ( Ji , 2016 ) . Given the universal conservation of Era among bacteria and the narrow conservation of SpoIVA , we proposed a model in which SpoIVA emerged via a duplication event followed by rapid divergence from Era ( Castaing et al . , 2013 ) . This divergence from Era included not only multiple residue substitutions , but also the addition of two C-terminal domains in SpoIVA that are not present in Era ( Figure 1B , C ) . Further , the most parsimonious explanation of the phyletic patterns of SpoIVA and Era is that they are not formally sister groups where both diverged from a common ancestor; rather , SpoIVA ATPase , which emerged specifically in sporulating Firmicutes , has the Era GTPase itself as its ancestor . Unlike myosin and kinesin , SpoIVA is not a motor protein . Instead SpoIVA is a cytoskeletal protein that assembles into a static polymer in an ATP hydrolysis-dependent manner ( Ramamurthi and Losick , 2008 ) . In the absence of an obvious motor function , which would necessitate high ATP utilization , the selective pressure that drove the evolution of nucleotide preference in SpoIVA has been unclear . SpoIVA is essential for bacterial endospore formation ( Galperin et al . , 2012; Roels et al . , 1992 ) . When Bacillus subtilis faces starvation , it metamorphoses into a structurally and chemically robust dormant cell type termed an endospore ( hereafter a ‘spore’ ) that protects the cell’s genetic material from environmental insults ( Higgins and Dworkin , 2012; Setlow , 2006; Stragier and Losick , 1996; Tan and Ramamurthi , 2014 ) . Spores are encased in a proteinaceous shell , termed the spore ‘coat’ , a complex structure that is composed of ~80 proteins ( Driks and Eichenberger , 2016; Henriques and Moran , 2007; McKenney and Eichenberger , 2012 ) . Assembly of the coat begins with the construction of a basement layer , of which the major structural protein is SpoIVA ( McKenney et al . , 2010; Peluso et al . , 2019; Price and Losick , 1999; Ramamurthi et al . , 2006; Ramamurthi and Losick , 2008; Roels et al . , 1992 ) . Unlike dynamic cytoskeletal proteins like actin and tubulin , where nucleotide binding drives polymerization and nucleotide hydrolysis is linked to polymer disassembly ( Pollard and Goldman , 2018 ) , SpoIVA polymerization requires ATP hydrolysis to form a nucleotide-free static polymer ( Castaing et al . , 2013; Wu et al . , 2015 ) . The amino terminal half of the SpoIVA ATPase is the nucleotide-binding domain , which belongs to the TRAFAC class of P-loop GTPases ( Figure 1A–C; Castaing et al . , 2014; Castaing et al . , 2013; Leipe et al . , 2002 ) . This domain harbors a Walker A motif that binds the γ-phosphoryl group of the bound ATP ( Walker et al . , 1982 ) , a Walker B motif that coordinates a Mg2+ ion required for ATP hydrolysis and , like TRAFAC GTPases , a sensor Thr ( ‘sensor T’ ) that detects the γ-phosphoryl of the bound nucleotide to trigger ATP hydrolysis ( Leipe et al . , 2002 ) . The classic TRAFAC GTPases which hydrolyze GTP contain a fourth motif ( the so-called G4 motif ) , typically consisting of Asn and Lys separated by one residue before an Asp ( NKxD ) that confers guanine-binding specificity ( Leipe et al . , 2002 ) . Crystal structures revealed direct interactions between the side chain of the Asp and the base of a bound GTP through two H-bonds , and a coordination of a water molecule to the α-phosphate group of the bound nucleotide by the Lys ( Knihtila et al . , 2015 ) . Additionally , the extended aliphatic side chain of the said Lys forms a hydrophobic wall to hold the guanine of the nucleotide in the active site . Substitution of the Asp in this motif with Asn abolished the guanine-binding specificity of Ras , also a GTPase of the TRAFAC clade , and switched its specificity to xanthine ( Kang et al . , 1994; Weijland et al . , 1994; Zhong et al . , 1995 ) . Additionally , in TRAFAC GTPases the loop spatially adjacent to the NKxD motif ( the so-called G5 motif ) is proximal to the guanine and might contribute to some extent to their guanine specificity . To understand the functional requirement for the evolution of SpoIVA from a GTPase to an ATPase , we sought to reformulate the active site of SpoIVA to mimic its ancestral GTPase activity by restoring the NKxD motif , which is altered in SpoIVA , and by altering an SxE sequence in the loop associated with the G5 motif . We found that partial restoration of the NKxD motif and alteration of the SxE sequence resulted in a SpoIVA variant that hydrolyzed GTP in vitro slightly preferentially over ATP with reduced overall catalytic efficiency , similar to the in vitro activity of the Era GTPase from which SpoIVA was likely derived in the ancestral sporulating Firmicute ( Castaing et al . , 2013 ) . In parallel , disrupting the NKxD motif in Era and introducing the SxE sequence into the G5 motif to mimic SpoIVA resulted in an Era variant that preferentially hydrolyzed ATP in vitro . The altered SpoIVA was able to harness the energy released by GTP or ATP hydrolysis to drive a necessary conformational change in the protein but failed to ultimately polymerize specifically in the presence of GTP . We show that this was due to the inability of SpoIVA to form the equivalent of an ADP-dependent multimer in the presence of GTP , which we show is a necessary intermediate en route to functional SpoIVA polymerization . Additionally , we provide evidence that the extant SpoIVA polymerizes more efficiently than the altered variant in the presence of lower ATP concentration , similar to what is present during the end of sporulation . We propose that a pronounced reduction in intracellular GTP concentration relative to ATP during the late stages of sporulation could have driven the evolution of SpoIVA to utilize ATP instead of GTP to drive polymerization , a critical step in the morphogenesis of the spore cell surface . 
Leptin regulates energy balance and also exhibits neurotrophic effects during critical developmental periods . However , the actual role of leptin during development is not yet fully understood . To uncover the importance of leptin in early life , the present study restored leptin signaling either at the fourth or tenth week of age in mice formerly null for the leptin receptor ( LepR ) gene . We found that some defects previously considered irreversible due to neonatal deficiency of leptin signaling , including the poor development of arcuate nucleus neural projections , were recovered by LepR reactivation in adulthood . However , LepR deficiency in early life led to irreversible obesity via suppression of energy expenditure . LepR reactivation in adulthood also led to persistent reduction in hypothalamic Pomc , Cartpt and Prlh mRNA expression and to defects in the reproductive system and brain growth . Our findings revealed that early defects in leptin signaling cause permanent metabolic , neuroendocrine and developmental problems .  The hormone leptin is best known as a key signal to the brain conveying information about body energy reserves ( Maffei et al . , 1995 ) . Consequently , leptin receptor ( LepR ) -expressing neurons are apt to modulate food intake and energy expenditure according to the amount of energy stored and the current energy balance ( Ramos-Lobo and Donato , 2017 ) . Hence , null mutations in the genes that encode for leptin or LepR impair the capacity of the hypothalamus to regulate energy homeostasis , leading to profound metabolic dysfunctions in humans and rodents , including severe obesity , hyperphagia , low-energy expenditure , hypoactivity , insulin resistance and infertility ( Halaas et al . , 1995; Montague et al . , 1997; Farooqi et al . , 2002; Licinio et al . , 2004 ) . In addition to the role of leptin in energy homeostasis , other studies have shown that leptin can affect developmental processes , especially in the brain ( Ahima et al . , 1999 ) . Regarding this aspect , rodents exhibit a postnatal leptin surge between the first and second week of age that is not associated to changes in fat mass or food intake ( Ahima et al . , 1998 ) . In addition , 2-week-old mice do not respond to the anorexigenic effects of leptin ( Mistry et al . , 1999 ) . Thus , leptin does not seem to be involved in the regulation of energy balance during the first weeks of life in mice . However , synaptic plasticity in the hypothalamus is regulated by leptin ( Pinto et al . , 2004 ) . Leptin signaling is also required for the formation of the neural projections from the arcuate nucleus ( ARH ) to post-synaptic targets , a process that takes place in the first 2 weeks of life ( Bouret et al . , 2004a; Kamitakahara et al . , 2018 ) . In accordance , leptin promotes neurite outgrowth in vitro and leptin-deficient ( Lepob/ob ) mice show disruption of ARH neural projections ( Bouret et al . , 2004b ) . Importantly , exogenous leptin rescues the development of ARH projections of Lepob/ob mice only when provided in the neonatal period . Thus , these findings suggest that the lack of leptin signaling in the first weeks of life permanently disrupts these projections in mice ( Bouret et al . , 2004b ) . Important implications arise from the developmental effects of leptin . For example , changes in leptin signaling during development could then affect the organization of critical neural circuits that regulate energy homeostasis , favoring the incidence of metabolic diseases later in life . Thus , leptin may also be involved in the developmental programming ( Ralevski and Horvath , 2015 ) . Accordingly , early postnatal leptin blockage in rats leads to long-term leptin resistance and susceptibility to diet-induced obesity ( Attig et al . , 2008 ) . Furthermore , neonatal leptin treatment reverses the developmental programming caused by maternal undernutrition ( Vickers et al . , 2005 ) . However , it is worth mentioning that despite the aforementioned evidence about leptin’s developmental effects , exogenous leptin replacement can reverse key metabolic abnormalities exhibited by leptin-deficient mice or humans ( Pelleymounter et al . , 1995; Ioffe et al . , 1998; Farooqi et al . , 2002; Licinio et al . , 2004; Donato et al . , 2011 ) . Therefore , the actual importance of leptin signaling during development for the long-term energy homeostasis and other aspects regulated by leptin is not yet fully understood . Thus , to uncover the role of leptin during development , we investigated the long-term consequences of the absence of leptin signaling in early life . For this purpose , we studied knockout mice for the Lepr gene that grew without leptin’s effects . However , LepR expression was restored either at the fourth or tenth week of life . Our findings revealed that some defects previously considered irreversible due to the lack of leptin signaling in the neonatal period , such as the poor development of ARH neural projections , can be recovered by LepR reactivation in adulthood . On the other hand , the absence of leptin signaling in early life permanently impairs energy homeostasis , the melanocortin system , as well as the reproduction and brain development . 
The Arabidopsis immune receptor FLS2 perceives bacterial flagellin epitope flg22 to activate defenses through the central cytoplasmic kinase BIK1 . The heterotrimeric G proteins composed of the non-canonical Gα protein XLG2 , the Gβ protein AGB1 , and the Gγ proteins AGG1 and AGG2 are required for FLS2-mediated immune responses through an unknown mechanism . Here we show that in the pre-activation state , XLG2 directly interacts with FLS2 and BIK1 , and it functions together with AGB1 and AGG1/2 to attenuate proteasome-mediated degradation of BIK1 , allowing optimum immune activation . Following the activation by flg22 , XLG2 dissociates from AGB1 and is phosphorylated by BIK1 in the N terminus . The phosphorylated XLG2 enhances the production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) likely by modulating the NADPH oxidase RbohD . The study demonstrates that the G proteins are directly coupled to the FLS2 receptor complex and regulate immune signaling through both pre-activation and post-activation mechanisms .  As an intensely studied Pattern Recognition Receptor ( PRR ) in plants , FLS2 serves as an excellent model understanding plant innate immune signaling and receptor kinases in general ( Macho and Zipfel , 2014 ) . It forms a dynamic complex with the co-receptor BAK1 and the receptor-like cytoplasmic kinase BIK1 to perceive a conserved bacterial flagellar epitope , flg22 , to activate a variety of defense responses ( Chinchilla et al . , 2007; Heese et al . , 2007; Lu et al . , 2010; Zhang et al . , 2010; Sun et al . , 2013 ) . Stability of FLS2 and BIK1 is subject to regulation by ubiquitin-proteasome system and a calcium-dependent protein kinase ( Lu et al . , 2011; Monaghan et al . , 2014 ) . We and others previously showed that BIK1 directly phosphorylates the NADPH oxidase RbohD to prime flg22-induced reactive oxygen species ( ROS; Kadota et al . , 2014; Li et al . , 2014 ) . Heterotrimeric G proteins are central for signaling in animals ( McCudden et al . , 2005; Oldham et al . , 2008 ) , which contain hundreds of G Protein-Coupled Receptors ( GPCRs ) . In the pre-activation state , the GDP-bound Gα interacts with the Gβγ dimer to form a heterotrimer . Upon activation by GPCR , Gα exchanges GDP for GTP , resulting in the activation of the heterotrimer . The activated Gα and Gβγ dissociate from each other to regulate downstream effectors . Plants contain canonical Gα ( encoded by GPA1 in Arabidopsis ) , Gβ ( encoded by AGB1 in Arabidopsis ) , Gγ proteins ( encoded by AGG1 , AGG2 ) , and a non-canonical Gγ ( encoded by AGG3 in Arabidopsis ) ( Urano and Jones , 2013 ) . Plants additionally encode extra-large G proteins ( XLGs , encoded by XLG1 , XLG2 , and XLG3 in Arabidopsis ) that carry a variable N-terminal domain and a C-terminal Gα domain ( Lee and Assman , 1999; Ding et al . , 2008 ) . Recent advances indicate that the Arabidopsis XLGs are functional Gα proteins and interact with Gβγ dimers to form heterotrimers ( Zhu et al . , 2009; Maruta et al . , 2015; Chakravorty et al . , 2015 ) . Heterotrimeric G proteins play important roles in a variety of biological processes in plants , including cell division ( Ullah et al . , 2001 , 2003; Chen et al . , 2003 ) , meristem maintenance ( Bommert et al . , 2013 ) , root morphogenesis ( Ding et al . , 2008 ) , seed development and germination ( Chen et al . , 2006; Pandey et al . , 2006 ) , nitrogen assimilation ( Sun et al . , 2014 ) , and response to ABA ( Wang et al . , 2001 ) , low temperature ( Ma et al . , 2015 ) , and blue light ( Warpeha et al . , 2006 ) . Accumulating evidence indicate that heterotrimeric G proteins also play an important role in plant disease resistance against diverse pathogens ( Llorente et al . , 2005; Trusov et al . , 2006; Zhu et al , 2009; Ishikawa , 2009; Cheng et al . , 2015 ) . Recent reports indicate that XLG2 , AGB1 , and AGG1/2 mediate immune responses downstream of PRRs ( Ishikawa , 2009; Zhu et al , 2009; Liu et al . , 2013; Lorek et al . , 2013; Torres et al . , 2013; Maruta et al . , 2015 ) . XLG2 was first shown to play an important role in basal resistance to P . syringae ( Zhu et al . , 2009 ) . A recent report showed that XLG2 , but not XLG1 , is required for resistance to P . syringae and flg22-induced ROS production ( Maruta et al . , 2015 ) . AGB1 and AGG1/2 , but not AGG3 , are required for resistance to P . syringae and microbial pattern-induced ROS production ( Liu et al . , 2013; Lorek et al . , 2013; Torres et al . , 2013 ) . Furthermore , epistatic analyses indicated that AGB1 acts in the same pathway as RbohD ( Torres et al . , 2013 ) . However , it is still debated whether plants possess 7 transmembrane GPCRs ( Taddese et al . , 2014; Urano and Jones , 2014 ) . One recent report suggests that GPA1 , AGG1/2 can interact with BAK1 and the chitin-binding receptor kinase CERK1 , but not FLS2 ( Aranda-Sicilia et al . , 2015 ) . However , GPA1 does not appear to play a role in flg22-induced ROS and disease resistance to P . syringae ( Liu et al . , 2013; Torres et al . , 2013 ) . How XLG2 and AGB1 regulate PRR-mediated immunity remains elusive . In this study , we report XLG2 , AGB1 , and AGG1/2 modulates flg22-triggered immunity by directly coupling to the FLS2-BIK1 receptor complex . Prior to activation by flg22 , the G proteins attenuate the proteasome-dependent degradation of BIK1 , ensuring optimum signaling competence . After flg22 stimulation , XLG2 dissociates from AGB1 , indicating a ligand-induced dissociation of Gα from Gβγ . In addition , we provide evidence that activation by flg22 additionally leads to XLG2 phospohrylation by BIK1 , and this phosphorylation positively regulates RbohD-dependent ROS production . Together the study illustrates two distinct mechanisms underlying the G protein-mediated regulation of the FLS2 signaling . 
The Arabidopsis circadian clock orchestrates gene regulation across the day/night cycle . Although a multiple feedback loop circuit has been shown to generate the 24-hr rhythm , it remains unclear how robust the clock is in individual cells , or how clock timing is coordinated across the plant . Here we examine clock activity at the single cell level across Arabidopsis seedlings over several days under constant environmental conditions . Our data reveal robust single cell oscillations , albeit desynchronised . In particular , we observe two waves of clock activity; one going down , and one up the root . We also find evidence of cell-to-cell coupling of the clock , especially in the root tip . A simple model shows that cell-to-cell coupling and our measured period differences between cells can generate the observed waves . Our results reveal the spatial structure of the plant clock and suggest that unlike the centralised mammalian clock , the Arabidopsis clock has multiple coordination points .  The circadian clock controls gene expression throughout the day and night in most organisms , from single cell photosynthetic bacteria to mammals ( Bell-Pedersen et al . , 2005; Dunlap and Loros , 2017 ) . In many cases , a core circuit that generates this rhythm has been elucidated and been shown to oscillate in single cells . In multi-cellular organisms , these single cell rhythms can be integrated to allow a coordinated response to the environment ( Bell-Pedersen et al . , 2005 ) . Mammals achieve this by driving oscillations in peripheral tissues from a central pacemaker in the brain , the suprachiasmatic nucleus ( SCN ) ( Pando et al . , 2002; Reppert and Weaver , 2002 ) . The Arabidopsis circadian clock generates a 24 hr rhythm in multiple key processes , including stomata opening , photosynthesis , and hypocotyl elongation ( Hsu and Harmer , 2014 ) . A hierarchical structure for the plant clock has recently been proposed , similar to that for the mammalian clock , where the shoot apex clock drives the rhythms in the root ( Takahashi et al . , 2015 ) . However , there are further tissue-dependent differences that must be explained . For example , experiments using a luciferase reporter for clock activity have shown waves of clock gene expression in leaves ( Fukuda et al . , 2007; Wenden et al . , 2012 ) , as well as striped expression patterns in roots ( Fukuda et al . , 2012 ) . Beyond the coordination of plant rhythms , how robust the circadian clock is in individual cells across the plant is also unclear . Through integration of data from whole plant studies , a genetic circuit consisting of multiple coupled feedback loops has been proposed to generate the 24-hr rhythm ( Fogelmark and Troein , 2014; Pokhilko et al . , 2012 ) . Simulations of this network display stable oscillations ( Figure 1a ) , although experimental measurements of clock rhythms under constant conditions often display damped rhythms ( Figure 1b ) ( Gould et al . , 2013; Locke et al . , 2005; Locke et al . , 2006; Salomé and McClung , 2005 ) . The damping is characterised by the reduction in amplitude of the oscillations through time . This damping at the whole plant level could be due to the clock circuit in all individual cells damping ( top , Figure 1c ) , or to cells desynchronising due to different intrinsic periods or phases ( Guerriero et al . , 2012; Komin et al . , 2011 ) ( bottom , Figure 1c ) , or cells desynchronising due to stochasticity in clock activity ( Guerriero et al . , 2012 ) . Previous studies have attempted to measure the clock in Arabidopsis at single-cell resolution; however , these have focused on specific parts of the plant for short time series ( Takahashi et al . , 2015; Yakir et al . , 2011 ) . Here , using a reporter for the core clock gene CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED 1 ( CCA1 ) ( Wang and Tobin , 1998 ) , we examine the dynamics of the Arabidopsis clock across the whole plant at the single cell level over several days . Our results reveal that damping of rhythms at the whole plant level is mainly due to desynchronisation of oscillating single cells with different periods , and not due to noise in gene expression due to low molecule numbers or damping of individual oscillations . We observe two waves of clock gene expression , one up and one down the root . These waves , combined with more variable clock periods at each position in the root , cause the most desynchronisation . From our single cell data , we are able to estimate the coupling strength between cells , and find evidence of coupling , especially strong in the root tip . A simple model suggests that our observed period differences , plus cell-to-cell coupling , can generate the observed waves in clock gene expression . Thus , our data reveals both the structure and robustness of the plant circadian clock system . 
In social settings , speech waveforms from nearby speakers mix together in our ear canals . Normally , the brain unmixes the attended speech stream from the chorus of background speakers using a combination of fast temporal processing and cognitive active listening mechanisms . Of >100 , 000 patient records , ~10% of adults visited our clinic because of reduced hearing , only to learn that their hearing was clinically normal and should not cause communication difficulties . We found that multi-talker speech intelligibility thresholds varied widely in normal hearing adults , but could be predicted from neural phase-locking to frequency modulation ( FM ) cues measured with ear canal EEG recordings . Combining neural temporal fine structure processing , pupil-indexed listening effort , and behavioral FM thresholds accounted for 78% of the variability in multi-talker speech intelligibility . The disordered bottom-up and top-down markers of poor multi-talker speech perception identified here could inform the design of next-generation clinical tests for hidden hearing disorders .  Slow fluctuations in the sound pressure envelope are sufficient for accurate speech perception in quiet backgrounds ( Shannon et al . , 1995 ) . Envelope cues are less useful when speech is embedded in fluctuant backgrounds comprised of multiple talkers , environmental noise or reverberation ( Zeng et al . , 2005 ) . Under these conditions , segregating a target speech stream from background noise requires accurate encoding of low-frequency spectral and binaural cues contained in the stimulus temporal fine structure ( sTFS ) ( Hopkins and Moore , 2009; Lorenzi et al . , 2006 ) . Monaural sTFS cues convey acoustic signatures of target speaker identity based on the arrangement of peaks in the sound spectrum ( e . g . , formant frequencies of target speech ) , while binaural sTFS cues can support spatial separation of target and competing speakers via interaural phase differences ( Moore , 2014 ) . With aging and hearing loss , monaural and binaural sTFS cues become less perceptually available , even when audibility thresholds for low-frequency signals that convey sTFS cues are normal ( Buss et al . , 2004; DiNino et al . , 2019; Füllgrabe et al . , 2014; Léger et al . , 2012; Lorenzi et al . , 2009; Mehraei et al . , 2014; Moore , 2014; Strelcyk and Dau , 2009 ) . The biological underpinnings for poor sTFS processing with aging or hearing impairment are unknown , but may reflect the loss of auditory nerve afferent fibers , which degenerate at the rate of approximately 1000 per decade , such that only half survive by the time a typical adult has reached 40 years of age ( Makary et al . , 2011; Wu et al . , 2019 ) . A selective loss of cochlear afferent fibers would not likely affect audibility thresholds , but could adversely affect the ability of the auditory system to fully exploit suprathreshold monaural and binaural sTFS cues that are critical for multi-talker speech intelligibility ( Deroche et al . , 2014; Hopkins et al . , 2008; Jin and Nelson , 2010; Lopez-Poveda and Barrios , 2013; Moore and Glasberg , 1987; Qin and Oxenham , 2003 , for review see - Moore , 2014 ) . Accurate processing of a target speaker in a multi-talker background reflects a harmony between high-fidelity encoding of bottom-up acoustic features such as sTFS alongside cognitive signatures of active listening including attention , listening effort , memory , multisensory integration and prediction ( Best et al . , 2009; Gordon-Salant and Cole , 2016; Narayan et al . , 2007; Pichora-Fuller et al . , 2016; Wild et al . , 2012; Winn et al . , 2015 ) . These top-down assets can be leveraged to compensate for poorly resolved bottom-up sensory cues , suggesting that listeners with clinically normal hearing that struggle to process speech in noise might be identified by an over-reliance on top-down active listening mechanisms to de-noise a corrupted afferent speech input ( Besser et al . , 2015; Ohlenforst et al . , 2017; Winn et al . , 2015 ) . Here , we apply parallel psychophysical and neurophysiological tests of sTFS processing in combination with physiological measures of effortful listening to converge on a set of neural biomarkers that identify poor multi-talker speech intelligibility in adults with clinically normal hearing . 
Tissue light scatter limits the visualization of the microvascular network deep inside the living mammal . The transparency of the mammalian eye provides a noninvasive view of the microvessels of the retina , a part of the central nervous system . Despite its clarity , imperfections in the optics of the eye blur microscopic retinal capillaries , and single blood cells flowing within . This limits early evaluation of microvascular diseases that originate in capillaries . To break this barrier , we use 15 kHz adaptive optics imaging to noninvasively measure single-cell blood flow , in one of the most widely used research animals: the C57BL/6J mouse . Measured flow ranged four orders of magnitude ( 0 . 0002–1 . 55 µL min–1 ) across the full spectrum of retinal vessel diameters ( 3 . 2–45 . 8 µm ) , without requiring surgery or contrast dye . Here , we describe the ultrafast imaging , analysis pipeline and automated measurement of millions of blood cell speeds .  Retinal neurons have exceptionally high metabolic activity and demand timely and adequate nutrition and waste removal ( Pournaras et al . , 2008 ) . Serving this need , the retinal circulation supplies the bulk of the inner retina with a stratified network of vessels , while the choroidal circulation supplies the photoreceptors . Anatomically , the inner retina is typically fed by a single central retinal artery while return is mediated by the central retinal vein in the holangiotic retina ( Michaelson , 1954 ) . However , functional characterization of perfusion has been more difficult , especially in the smaller vessels where imaging single blood cells without using invasive foreign dyes requires exquisite spatiotemporal resolution and contrast . Understanding perfusion kinetics at this scale is critical to understanding the entire connected network , especially since blood flow dynamics are tightly linked to physiologically relevant neural loads ( neural-glial-vascular coupling ) . Moreover , studying blood flow at this scale is important to characterize conditions of health and disease which place important constraints on single file blood flow where nutrient delivery and waste product removal take place . In the retina , as in the brain , there is a known linkage between stoppage of blood perfusion and death of neurons . These are manifest not only by transient blockages as seen in branch retinal vein occlusion and central retinal artery occlusion , but also in more insidious diseases such as diabetic retinopathy ( Pournaras et al . , 2008 ) . Unfortunately , the detection of retinal vascular disease in the clinic often comes too late , when either the patient reports vision loss or when structural changes to the vasculature become severe enough to be visualized by clinical ophthalmoscopes . Making matters worse , many vascular diseases of the eye are believed to manifest first in capillaries , which generally evade detailed study due to their microscopic size , thus making early detection in the clinic difficult . Retinal capillaries with single file flow are small , with lumen diameter ranging from 3 to 7 µm ( Guevara-Torres et al . , 2016 ) . This poses a challenge for conventional imaging systems , such as scanning laser ophthalmoscopy ( SLO ) and optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) , which do not correct for the aberrations of the eye , and have an optical resolution of 10–13 µm ( Porter et al . , 2006; Zhi et al . , 2012 ) . Imaging techniques that can visualize the larger vessels ( ~10–200 µm ) are still faced with the problem that single blood cells ( ~6–8 µm ) are densely packed and exhibit non-parabolic velocity profiles , making an accurate assessment of mean velocity and flow difficult without empirical knowledge of the profile shape . Detecting subtle functional changes to flow becomes exceedingly difficult as the ratio of vessel lumen to RBC diameter decreases , because of the particulate nature of blood flow . Due to the above challenges , a device that can noninvasively study single-cell blood flow dynamics in the full range of retinal vessel sizes in the living body has not yet been demonstrated , in either the mouse or human . Studies in larger retinal vessels using Doppler strategies have provided one solution to report bulk velocity . These techniques , like bidirectional laser Doppler velocimetry , Fourier domain Doppler optical coherence tomography and others , give objective and label free measurements of blood velocity in large and medium-sized retinal vessels in humans ( size definitions in Materials and methods ) ( Feke et al . , 1989; Riva et al . , 1985; Wang et al . , 2007; Wang et al . , 2008 ) . Based on certain assumptions , the Doppler shift can indicate the speed of optical scatterers . However , applying the Doppler approach to small vessels is challenging as there are far fewer blood cells at the capillary level , thereby reducing the Doppler signature . Additionally , left uncorrected , the smallest measurement beam that can be formed is limited by the imperfect optics of the eye ( ~10–13 µm spot size ) . This limits the readout of vessels to a comparable size . Such techniques also suffer the consequence of contamination of adjacent vessel signal which may be of opposite direction or speed . Axial contributions from deeper vessels may also contaminate single vessel measurement as retinal vessels above and below the interrogation beam can introduce non-specific signals . Doppler OCT has mitigated this issue to some extent; however , signal-to-noise and lateral resolution still limit the signal readout of absolute velocity or flow to only the large retinal vessels in mice , and large and medium-sized vessels in humans . Towards achieving capillary resolution , OCT angiography ( OCTA ) has recently revolutionized measures of perfused vs . non-perfused capillaries . However , it does not quantitate blood flow or velocity . Conditions of hyper- and hypo-perfusion are not reported and thus early and subtle functional changes in blood flow may be overlooked and only later structural vessel occlusions visualized in disease . In recent years , adaptive optics ( AO ) ophthalmoscopy has enabled reporting of single blood cell speed in capillaries in humans ( Bedggood and Metha , 2012; de Castro et al . , 2016; Gu et al . , 2018; Martin and Roorda , 2005; Martin and Roorda , 2009; Tam et al . , 2010; Tam and Roorda , 2011; Tam et al . , 2011b ) and mice ( Guevara-Torres et al . , 2016 ) , and medium-sized vessels in humans ( Zhong et al . , 2012; Zhong et al . , 2008; Zhong et al . , 2011 ) . This has been possible as AO measures and corrects for high order aberrations of the eye , achieving ~1–2 µm lateral resolution in vivo ( Liang et al . , 1997; Roorda and Duncan , 2015; Roorda et al . , 2002 ) . Recent advances ( Chui et al . , 2012; Guevara-Torres et al . , 2015; Scoles et al . , 2014 ) in developing phase contrast approaches has enabled visualization of translucent cell properties , like blood cell rheology ( Guevara-Torres et al . , 2016 ) and blood vessel wall structure ( Burns et al . , 2014; Chui et al . , 2014; Chui et al . , 2012; Sulai et al . , 2014 ) , without the aid of invasive foreign dyes or particles . Recently , we combined this approach with extremely fast camera speeds to resolve densely packed RBCs in single file flow in capillaries ( 3 . 2–6 . 5 µm size ) and reported single-blood-cell flux ( Guevara-Torres et al . , 2016 ) without using exogenous contrast agents . While the above studies employing adaptive optics have enabled noninvasive measurement of single-cell velocity , measurement of blood flow in the full range of vessel sizes of the mammalian retinal circulation is yet to be achieved . This has partly been a problem of scale as automation is needed to perform quantitative measurements in larger vessels containing hundreds of thousands of blood cells flowing per second . In this study , we provide such a computational approach , thus improving upon seminal adaptive optics strategies ( Tam et al . , 2011b; Zhong et al . , 2008 ) which used manual velocity determinations , which could take hours to days of analysis time by a human operator . Lengthy analysis times also preclude the use of such techniques in a clinical setting . In this study , we use the living mouse to benchmark the automation of blood velocity data . The mouse is the most widely used laboratory animal , yet there is a paucity of studies providing measures of retinal blood flow in the same . This gap need be addressed as the mouse has been and continues to be used to model human retinal physiology , including blood flow . The challenge of imaging mouse retinal blood flow is attributed to the difficulties of imaging its rather small eye , with even the largest vessels being only a quarter the size of the largest human retinal vessel . Furthermore , as we detail later in this paper , there is wide discrepancy in the normative values of retinal blood flow reported in the few mouse studies that exist . Given the importance of the laboratory mouse , with its completely sequenced genome and many models of disease , characterization of normative blood flow in the complete vascular tree of the healthy C57BL/6J mouse will propagate future research in a vast number of mouse models of retinal disease and systemic vascular disease . Development on quantification of mouse blood flow approaches will be directly applicable to clinical approaches using the same instrumentation . In this study , we innovate imaging strategies as well as deploy custom algorithms to image single blood cells noninvasively in the smallest to largest vessels of the mouse retinal circulation ( lumen diameters: 3 . 2–45 . 8 µm ) ; without requiring exogenous contrast agents to facilitate measurement . Measured flow rate per vessel ranged four orders of magnitude ( 0 . 0002–1 . 55 µL min–1 ) across the complete retinal vascular tree , from the largest vessel near the optic disk to the smallest capillary . In addition to aiding basic science investigation , the noninvasive approach provides a comprehensive array of bioreporters of microvascular perfusion , including: cell velocity , lumen diameter , flow rate , single-cell flux in capillaries , pulsatile and cross-sectional flow , and indices of intrinsic temporal and spatial modulations in flow . To our knowledge , we provide the first measurement of cross-sectional blood-cell velocity profile and the first absolute measurement of pulsatile blood-cell velocity in the mouse retina . We also provide the first measures of mean ( and pulsatile ) velocity and flow rate in medium and small vessels ( capillaries ) of the mouse retina . We found that there is a heterogenous distribution of velocity , flux and other hemodynamic parameters in vessels of varying generation/size , showing that diameter alone is a poor predictor of microcirculation hemodynamics in the central nervous system . Through the innovations presented in this work , imaging the complete and intact perfusion system of the mammalian retina bridges an important gap in studying perfusion dynamics in deep microvascular beds within the living body . Due to the central nervous system origin of the retina , this method provides a powerful way to noninvasively study microvascular integrity and kinetics in a portion of the living brain . 
Symbiosis Receptor-like Kinase ( SYMRK ) is indispensable for the development of phosphate-acquiring arbuscular mycorrhiza ( AM ) as well as nitrogen-fixing root nodule symbiosis , but the mechanisms that discriminate between the two distinct symbiotic developmental fates have been enigmatic . In this study , we show that upon ectopic expression , the receptor-like kinase genes Nod Factor Receptor 1 ( NFR1 ) , NFR5 , and SYMRK initiate spontaneous nodule organogenesis and nodulation-related gene expression in the absence of rhizobia . Furthermore , overexpressed NFR1 or NFR5 associated with endogenous SYMRK in roots of the legume Lotus japonicus . Epistasis tests revealed that the dominant active SYMRK allele initiates signalling independently of either the NFR1 or NFR5 gene and upstream of a set of genes required for the generation or decoding of calcium-spiking in both symbioses . Only SYMRK but not NFR overexpression triggered the expression of AM-related genes , indicating that the receptors play a key role in the decision between AM- or root nodule symbiosis-development .  Plants circumvent nutrient deficiencies by establishing mutualistic symbioses with arbuscular mycorrhiza ( AM ) fungi or nitrogen-fixing rhizobia and Frankia bacteria ( Gutjahr and Parniske , 2013; Oldroyd , 2013 ) . One of the first steps in the reciprocal recognition between rhizobia and the legume Lotus japonicus is the perception of bacterial lipo-chitooligosaccharides , so called nodulation factors , by the two lysin motif ( LysM ) receptor-like kinases ( RLKs ) Nod Factor Receptor 1 ( NFR1 ) and NFR5 ( Madsen et al . , 2003; Radutoiu et al . , 2003 , 2007; Broghammer et al . , 2012 ) . Nodulation factor application induces two genetically separable calcium signatures in root hair cells; an early transient influx into the cytoplasm and within minutes calcium-spiking - periodic calcium oscillations in and around plant cell nuclei ( Ehrhardt et al . , 1996; Miwa et al . , 2006; Oldroyd , 2013 ) . ( Lipo ) -chitooligosaccharides have also been isolated from AM fungi ( Maillet et al . , 2011; Genre et al . , 2013 ) and a NFR5-related LysM-RLK from Parasponia has been pinpointed as a likely candidate for their perception ( Op Den Camp et al . , 2011 ) . The common symbiosis genes of legumes are required for AM and root nodule symbiosis . A subset of these genes is essential for either the generation or the decoding of calcium-spiking . In L . japonicus , the former group encodes the RLK Symbiosis Receptor-like Kinase ( SYMRK; Stracke et al . , 2002; Antolín-Llovera et al . , 2014 ) , two cation-permeable ion channels CASTOR and POLLUX ( Imaizumi-Anraku et al . , 2005; Charpentier et al . , 2008; Venkateshwaran et al . , 2012 ) as well as the nucleoporins NUP85 , NUP133 , and NENA ( Kanamori et al . , 2006; Saito et al . , 2007; Groth et al . , 2010 ) . The latter group encodes Calcium Calmodulin-dependent Protein Kinase ( CCaMK; Tirichine et al . , 2006; Miller et al . , 2013 ) and CYCLOPS ( Yano et al . , 2008 ) , which form a complex that has been implicated in the deciphering of calcium-spiking ( Kosuta et al . , 2008 ) . Phosphorylation by CCaMK activates CYCLOPS , a DNA-binding transcriptional activator of the NODULE INCEPTION gene ( NIN; Schauser et al . , 1999; Singh et al . , 2014 ) . NIN itself is a legume-specific and root nodule symbiosis-related transcription factor and regulates the Nuclear Factor-Y subunit genes NF-YA1 and NF-YB1 that control the cell division cycle ( Soyano et al . , 2013; Yoro et al . , 2014 ) . The paradigm of a common signalling pathway for both symbioses bears important open questions about the molecular mechanisms that ensure the appropriate cellular response for AM fungi on the one hand and for rhizobia on the other hand . SYMRK carries an ectodomain composed of a malectin-like domain ( MLD ) , and a leucine-rich repeat ( LRR ) region that experienced structural diversification during evolution ( Markmann et al . , 2008 ) and is cleaved to release the MLD ( Antolín-Llovera et al . , 2014 ) . Although SYMRK has been cloned several years ago ( Stracke et al . , 2002 ) , its precise function in symbiosis is still enigmatic . While nfr mutants lack most cellular and physiological responses to rhizobia ( Radutoiu et al . , 2003 ) , including nodulation factor-induced calcium influx and calcium-spiking , root hairs of symrk mutants respond with calcium influx to nodulation factor but not with calcium-spiking , and do not develop infection threads with rhizobia ( Stracke et al . , 2002; Miwa et al . , 2006 ) . Based on these phenotypic observations , SYMRK was positioned downstream of the NFRs ( Radutoiu et al . , 2003; Miwa et al . , 2006 ) . Importantly , it has not been conclusively resolved whether SYMRK plays an active signalling role in symbiosis or , alternatively , is involved in mechanical stress desensitisation ( Esseling et al . , 2004 ) . To approach this issue , we built on the observation that specific mutations in , or over-abundance of mammalian receptor tyrosine kinases on the cell surface is linked with the development of some cancers caused by spontaneous receptor complex formation and inappropriate initiation of signalling ( Schlessinger , 2002; Wei et al . , 2005; Shan et al . , 2012 ) . We hypothesized that similar behaviour could be triggered by overexpression of symbiosis-related plant RLKs , providing a tool to further dissect the specific signalling pathways they address . 
Quantitative behavioral measurements are important for answering questions across scientific disciplines—from neuroscience to ecology . State-of-the-art deep-learning methods offer major advances in data quality and detail by allowing researchers to automatically estimate locations of an animal’s body parts directly from images or videos . However , currently available animal pose estimation methods have limitations in speed and robustness . Here , we introduce a new easy-to-use software toolkit , DeepPoseKit , that addresses these problems using an efficient multi-scale deep-learning model , called Stacked DenseNet , and a fast GPU-based peak-detection algorithm for estimating keypoint locations with subpixel precision . These advances improve processing speed >2x with no loss in accuracy compared to currently available methods . We demonstrate the versatility of our methods with multiple challenging animal pose estimation tasks in laboratory and field settings—including groups of interacting individuals . Our work reduces barriers to using advanced tools for measuring behavior and has broad applicability across the behavioral sciences .  Collecting high-quality behavioral data is a challenging task , and while direct observations are important for gathering qualitative data about a study system , a variety of automated methods for quantifying movement have become popular in recent years ( Dell et al . , 2014; Anderson and Perona , 2014; Kays et al . , 2015 ) . Methods like video monitoring and recording help to accelerate data collection and reduce the effects of human intervention , but the task of manually scoring videos is time consuming and suffers from the same limitations as direct observation , namely observer bias and mental fatigue . Additionally , due to limitations of human observers’ ability to process information , many studies that rely on manual scoring use relatively small datasets to estimate experimental effects , which can lead to increased rates of statistical errors . Studies that lack the statistical resolution to robustly test hypotheses ( commonly called 'power' in frequentist statistics ) also raise concerns about the use of animals for research , as statistical errors caused by sparse data can impact researchers’ ability to accurately answer scientific questions . These limitations have led to the development of automated methods for quantifying behavior using advanced imaging technologies ( Dell et al . , 2014 ) as well as sophisticated tags and collars with GPS , accelerometry , and acoustic-recording capabilities ( Kays et al . , 2015 ) . Tools for automatically measuring the behavior of individuals now play a central role in our ability to study the neurobiology and ecology of animals , and reliance on these technologies for studying animal behavior will only increase in the future . The rapid development of computer vision hardware and software in recent years has allowed for the use of automated image-based methods for measuring behavior across many experimental contexts ( Dell et al . , 2014 ) . Early methods for quantifying movement with these techniques required highly controlled laboratory conditions . However , because animals exhibit different behaviors depending on their surroundings ( Strandburg-Peshkin et al . , 2017; Francisco et al . , 2019; Akhund-Zade et al . , 2019 ) , laboratory environments are often less than ideal for studying many natural behaviors . Most conventional computer vision methods are also limited in their ability to accurately track groups of individuals over time , but nearly all animals are social at some point in their life and exhibit specialized behaviors when in the presence of conspecifics ( Strandburg-Peshkin et al . , 2013; Rosenthal et al . , 2015; Jolles et al . , 2017; Klibaite et al . , 2017; Klibaite and Shaevitz , 2019; Francisco et al . , 2019; Versace et al . , 2019 ) . These methods also commonly track only the animal’s center of mass , which reduces the behavioral output of an individual to a two-dimensional or three-dimensional particle-like trajectory . While trajectory data are useful for many experimental designs , the behavioral repertoire of an animal cannot be fully described by its aggregate locomotory output . For example , stationary behaviors , like grooming and antennae movements , or subtle differences in walking gaits cannot be reliably detected by simply tracking an animal’s center of mass ( Berman et al . , 2014b; Wiltschko et al . , 2015 ) . Together these factors have driven the development of software that can accurately track the positions of marked ( Crall et al . , 2015; Graving , 2017; Wild et al . , 2018; Boenisch et al . , 2018 ) or unmarked ( Pérez-Escudero et al . , 2014; Romero-Ferrero et al . , 2019 ) individuals as well as methods that can quantify detailed descriptions of an animal’s posture over time ( Stephens et al . , 2011; Berman et al . , 2014b; Wiltschko et al . , 2015; Mathis et al . , 2018; Pereira et al . , 2019 ) . Recently , these advancements have been further improved through the use of deep learning , a class of machine learning algorithms that learn complex statistical relationships from data ( LeCun et al . , 2015 ) . Deep learning has opened the door to accurately tracking large groups of marked ( Wild et al . , 2018; Boenisch et al . , 2018 ) or unmarked ( Romero-Ferrero et al . , 2019 ) individuals and has made it possible to measure the body posture of animals in nearly any context—including 'in the wild' ( Nath et al . , 2019 ) —by tracking the positions of user-defined body parts ( Mathis et al . , 2018; Pereira et al . , 2019 ) . These advances have drastically increased the quality and quantity , as well as the diversity , of behavioral data that are potentially available to researchers for answering scientific questions . In the past , conventional methods for measuring posture with computer vision relied on species-specific algorithms ( Uhlmann et al . , 2017 ) , highly specialized or restrictive experimental setups ( Mendes et al . , 2013; Kain et al . , 2013 ) , attaching intrusive physical markers to the study animal ( Kain et al . , 2013 ) , or some combination thereof . These methods also typically required expert computer-vision knowledge to use , were limited in the number or type of body parts that could be tracked ( Mendes et al . , 2013 ) , involved capturing and handling the study animals to attach markers ( Kain et al . , 2013 ) —which is not possible for many species—and despite best efforts to minimize human involvement , often required manual intervention to correct errors ( Uhlmann et al . , 2017 ) . These methods were all built to work for a small range of conditions and typically required considerable effort to adapt to novel contexts . In contrast to conventional computer-vision methods , modern deep-learning–﻿based methods can be used to achieve near human-level accuracy in almost any scenario by manually annotating data ( Figure 1 ) —known as a training set—and training a general-purpose image-processing algorithm—a convolutional neural network or CNN—to automatically estimate the locations of an animal’s body parts directly from images ( Figure 2 ) . State-of-the-art machine learning methods , like CNNs , use these training data to parameterize a model describing the statistical relationships between a set of input data ( i . e . , images ) and the desired output distribution ( i . e . , posture keypoints ) . After adequate training , a model can be used to make predictions on previously-unseen data from the same dataset—inputs that were not part of the training set , which is known as inference . In other words , these models are able to generalize human-level expertise at scale after having been trained on only a relatively small number of examples . We provide more detailed background information on using CNNs for pose estimation in Appendices 2–6 . Similar to conventional pose estimation methods , the task of implementing deep-learning models in software and training them on new data is complex and requires expert knowledge . However , in most cases , once the underlying model and training routine are implemented , a high-accuracy pose estimation model for a novel context can be built with minimal modification—often just by changing the training data . With a simplified toolkit and high-level software interface designed by an expert , even scientists with limited computer-vision knowledge can begin to apply these methods to their research . Once the barriers for implementing and training a model are sufficiently reduced , the main bottleneck for using these methods becomes collecting an adequate training set—a labor-intensive task made less time-consuming by techniques described in Appendix 3 . Mathis et al . ( 2018 ) and Pereira et al . ( 2019 ) were the first to popularize the use of CNNs for animal pose estimation . These researchers built on work from the human pose estimation literature ( e . g . , Andriluka et al . , 2014; Insafutdinov et al . , 2016; Newell et al . , 2016 ) using a type of fully-convolutional neural network or F-CNN ( Long et al . , 2015; Appendix 4 ) often referred to as an encoder-decoder model ( Appendix 4: 'Encoder-decoder models' ) . These models are used to measure animal posture by training the network to transform images into probabilistic estimates of keypoint locations , known as confidence maps ( shown in Figure 2 ) , that describe the body posture for one or more individuals . These confidence maps are processed to produce the 2-D spatial coordinates of each keypoint , which can then be used for further analysis . While deep-learning models typically need large amounts of training data , both Mathis et al . ( 2018 ) and Pereira et al . ( 2019 ) have demonstrated that near human-level accuracy can be achieved with few training examples ( Appendix 3 ) . In order to ensure generalization to large datasets , both groups of researchers introduced ideas related to iteratively refining the training set used for model fitting ( Mathis et al . , 2018; Pereira et al . , 2019 ) . In particular , Pereira et al . ( 2019 ) describe a technique known as active learning where a trained model is used to initialize new training data and reduce annotation time ( Appendix 3 ) . Mathis et al . ( 2018 ) describe multiple techniques that can be used to further refine training data and minimize errors when making predictions on the full dataset . Simple methods to accomplish this include filtering data or selecting new training examples based on confidence scores or the entropy of the confidence maps from the model output . Nath et al . ( 2019 ) also introduced the use temporal derivatives ( i . e . , speed and acceleration ) and autoregressive models to identify outlier frames , which can then be labeled to refine the training set or excluded from further analysis on the final dataset ( Figure 1 ) . Mathis et al . , 2018 developed their pose estimation model , which they call DeepLabCut , by modifying a previously published model called DeeperCut ( Insafutdinov et al . , 2016 ) . The DeepLabCut model ( Mathis et al . , 2018 ) , like the DeeperCut model , is built on the popular ResNet architecture ( He et al . , 2016 ) —a state-of-the-art deep-learning model used for image classification . This choice is advantageous because the use of a popular architecture allows for incorporating a pre-trained encoder to improve performance and reduce the number of required training examples ( Mathis et al . , 2018 ) , known as transfer learning ( Pratt , 1992; Appendix 3 ) —although , as will be seen , transfer learning appears to offer little improvement over a randomly initialized model . However , this choice of of a pre-trained architecture is also disadvantageous as the model is overparameterized with >25 million parameters . Overparameterization allows the model to make accurate predictions , but this may come with the cost of slow inference . To alleviate these effects , work from Mathis and Warren ( 2018 ) showed that inference speed for the DeepLabCut model ( Mathis et al . , 2018 ) can be improved by decreasing the resolution of input images , but this is achieved at the expense of accuracy . With regard to model design , Pereira et al . ( 2019 ) implement a modified version of a model called SegNet ( Badrinarayanan et al . , 2015 ) , which they call LEAP ( LEAP Estimates Animal Pose ) , that attempts to limit model complexity and overparameterization with the goal of maximizing inference speed ( see Appendix 6 ) —however , our comparisons from this paper suggest ( Pereira et al . , 2019 ) achieved only limited success compared to the DeepLabCut model ( Mathis et al . , 2018 ) . The LEAP model is advantageous because it is explicitly designed for fast inference but has disadvantages such as a lack of robustness to data variance , like rotations or shifts in lighting , and an inability to generalize to new experimental setups . Additionally , to achieve maximum performance , the training routine for the LEAP model introduced by Pereira et al . ( 2019 ) requires computationally expensive preprocessing that is not practical for many datasets , which makes it unsuitable for a wide range of experiments ( see Appendix 6 for more details ) . Together the methods from Mathis et al . ( 2018 ) and Pereira et al . ( 2019 ) represent the two extremes of a phenomenon known as the speed-accuracy trade-off ( Huang et al . , 2017b ) —an active area of research in the machine learning literature . Mathis et al . ( 2018 ) prioritize accuracy over speed by using a large overparameterized model ( Insafutdinov et al . , 2016 ) , and Pereira et al . ( 2019 ) prioritize speed over accuracy by using a smaller less-robust model . While this speed-accuracy trade-off can limit the capabilities of CNNs , there has been extensive work to make these models more efficient without impacting accuracy ( e . g . , Chollet , 2017; Huang et al . , 2017a; Sandler et al . , 2018 ) . To address the limitations of this trade-off , we apply recent developments from the machine learning literature and provide an effective solution to the problem . In the case of F-CNN models used for pose estimation , improvements in efficiency and robustness have been made through the use of multi-scale inference ( Appendix 4: 'Encoder-decoder models' ) by increasing connectivity between the model’s many layers across multiple spatial scales ( Appendix 4—figure 1 ) Multi-scale inference implicitly allows the model to simultaneously integrate large-scale global information , such as the lighting , image background , or the orientation of the focal individual’s body trunk; information from intermediate scales like anatomical geometry related to cephalization and bilateral symmetry; and fine-scale local information that could include differences in color , texture , or skin patterning for specific body parts . This multi-scale design gives the model capacity to learn the hierarchical relationships between different spatial scales and efficiently aggregate them into a joint representation when solving the posture estimation task ( see Appendix 4: 'Encoder-decoder models' and Appendix 4—figure 1 for further discussion ) . Most work on human pose estimation now focuses on estimating the pose of multiple individuals in an image ( e . g . Cao et al . , 2017 ) . For animal pose estimation , the methods from Pereira et al . ( 2019 ) are limited to estimating posture for single individuals—known as individual pose estimation—while the methods from Mathis et al . ( 2018 ) can also be extended to estimate posture for multiple individuals simultaneously—known as multiple pose estimation . However , the majority of work on multiple pose estimation , including Mathis et al . ( 2018 ) , has not adequately solved the tracking problem of linking individual posture data across frames in a video , especially after visual occlusions , which are common in many behavioral experiments—although recent work has attempted to address this problem ( Iqbal et al . , 2017; Andriluka et al . , 2018 ) . Additionally , as the name suggests , the task of multiple pose estimation requires exhaustively annotating images of multiple individuals—where every individual in the image must be annotated to prevent the model from learning conflicting information . This type of annotation task is even more laborious and time consuming than annotations for individual pose estimation and the amount of labor increases proportionally with the number of individuals in each frame , which makes this approach intractable for many experimental systems . Reliably tracking the position of individuals over time is important for most behavioral studies , and there are a number of diverse methods already available for solving this problem ( Pérez-Escudero et al . , 2014; Crall et al . , 2015; Graving , 2017; Romero-Ferrero et al . , 2019; Wild et al . , 2018; Boenisch et al . , 2018 ) . Therefore , to avoid solving an already-solved problem of tracking individuals and to circumvent the cognitively complex task of annotating data for multiple pose estimation , the work we describe in this paper is purposefully limited to individual pose estimation—where each image contains only a single focal individual , which may be cropped from a larger multi-individual image after localization and tracking . We introduce a top-down posture estimation framework that can be readily adapted to existing behavioral analysis workflows , which could include any method for localizing and tracking individuals . The additional step of localizing and tracking individuals naturally increases the processing time for producing posture data from raw image data , which varies depending on the algorithms being used and the number of individuals in each frame . While tracking and localization may not be practical for all experimental systems , which could make our methods difficult to apply 'out-of-the-box' , the increased processing time from automated tracking algorithms is a reasonable trade-off for most systems given the costly alternative of increased manual labor when annotating data . This trade-off seems especially practical when considering that the posture data produced by most multiple pose estimation algorithms still need to be linked across video frames to maintain the identity of each individual , which is effectively a bottom-up method for achieving the same result . Limiting our methods to individual pose estimation also simplifies the pose detection problem as processing confidence maps produced by the model does not require computationally-expensive local peak detection and complex methods for grouping keypoints into individual posture graphs ( e . g . Insafutdinov et al . , 2016; Cao et al . , 2017; Appendix 4 ) . Additionally , because individual pose estimation is such a well-studied problem in computer vision , we can readily build on state-of-the-art methods for this task ( see Appendices 4 and 5 for details ) . 
When innate immune cells such as macrophages are challenged with environmental stresses or infection by pathogens , they trigger the rapid assembly of multi-protein complexes called inflammasomes that are responsible for initiating pro-inflammatory responses and a form of cell death termed pyroptosis . We describe here the identification of an intracellular trigger of NLRP3-mediated inflammatory signaling , IL-1β production and pyroptosis in primed murine bone marrow-derived macrophages that is mediated by the disruption of glycolytic flux . This signal results from a drop of NADH levels and induction of mitochondrial ROS production and can be rescued by addition of products that restore NADH production . This signal is also important for host-cell response to the intracellular pathogen Salmonella typhimurium , which can disrupt metabolism by uptake of host-cell glucose . These results reveal an important inflammatory signaling network used by immune cells to sense metabolic dysfunction or infection by intracellular pathogens .  Inflammation is an immunological process required for an organized response to infection , injury , and stress . Because excessive inflammation can be damaging , its initiation is highly regulated . Innate immune cells such as macrophages have evolved sensors of pathogens and homeostatic perturbations which , when activated , induce an immune response ( Medzhitov , 2008 ) . Amongst these sensors are Nod-like receptors ( NLRs ) , which are activated in response to a diverse set of pathogen-associated molecular patterns ( PAMPs ) and danger-associated molecular patterns ( DAMPs ) . Activated NLR proteins recruit and facilitate activation of the protease caspase-1 either directly , through caspase activation and recruitment domain ( CARD ) interactions , or indirectly , through the adaptor apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD ( ASC; also known as Pycard ) . The resulting macromolecular complex is referred to as the inflammasome ( Lamkanfi and Dixit , 2014 ) . The inactive precursor of the cytokine interleukin-1β ( pro-IL-1β ) is also recruited to the inflammasome complex , where proteolysis by caspase-1 induces activation and secretion of the bioactive cytokine , further promoting inflammation . In addition to cytokine maturation , inflammasome formation and caspase activation are associated with a pro-inflammatory form of cell death termed pyroptosis ( Fink and Cookson , 2006 ) . This form of cell death results in lytic release of cytosolic contents and other pro-inflammatory factors such as interleukin-1α and high-mobility group protein B1 ( HMGB1 ) , which are potent inducers of inflammation ( Medzhitov , 2008; Croker et al . , 2014 ) . Diverse activation signals have been reported as triggers of NLR signaling . For example , the NLR AIM2 is activated by cytosolic double-stranded DNA ( Lamkanfi and Dixit , 2014; Fernandes-Alnemri et al . , 2009; Hornung et al . , 2009; Bürckstümmer et al . , 2009 ) , a structural feature associated with infections with pathogens and not found in healthy host cells ( Fink and Cookson , 2006; Hornung et al . , 2009; Jones et al . , 2010 ) . The NLR NLRP3 is a sensor of a wide variety of PAMPs and DAMPs but the unifying mechanism of its disparate activators is not understood ( Sutterwala et al . , 2014 ) . Furthermore , while the NLRP3 signaling pathway can be activated by a variety of both gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria , the mechanism by which these pathogens induce inflammasome signaling through this receptor is often unclear ( Storek and Monack , 2015 ) . Specifically , effective defense against Salmonella typhimurium ( S . typhimurium ) requires NLRP3 ( Broz et al . , 2010 ) , yet the mechanism by which the pathogen activates this pathway remains unknown . Here , we report a small molecule , GB111-NH2 , that induces NLRP3 inflammasome formation , caspase-1 activation , IL-1β secretion , and pyroptotic cell death in bone marrow-derived macrophages ( BMDM ) . Using chemical proteomics , we identify the glycolytic enzymes GAPDH and α-enolase as the phenotypically relevant targets of this molecule . Facilitating TCA metabolism downstream of glycolysis by addition of pyruvate or succinate blocked the effects of the compound . We find that S . typhimurium infection , like direct chemical inhibition of the glycolytic enzymes , reduced glycolytic flux and that restoring metabolism downstream of glycolysis also prevented S . typhimurium-induced inflammasome formation , IL-1β secretion , and pyroptosis . We find that glycolytic disruption induced by either the small molecules or S . typhimurium infection impaired NADH production , resulting in the formation of mitochondrial ROS that were essential for NLRP3 inflammasome activation . Therefore , disruption of glycolytic flux is a biologically relevant trigger of NLRP3 inflammasome activation that is mediated by mitochondrial redox changes , revealing a mechanistic link between cellular metabolism and initiation of inflammation . 
BReast Cancer Associated proteins 1 and 2 ( BRCA1 , −2 ) and Partner and Localizer of BRCA2 ( PALB2 ) protein are tumour suppressors linked to a spectrum of malignancies , including breast cancer and Fanconi anemia . PALB2 coordinates functions of BRCA1 and BRCA2 during homology-directed repair ( HDR ) and interacts with several chromatin proteins . In addition to protein scaffold function , PALB2 binds DNA . The functional role of this interaction is poorly understood . We identified a major DNA-binding site of PALB2 , mutations in which reduce RAD51 foci formation and the overall HDR efficiency in cells by 50% . PALB2 N-terminal DNA-binding domain ( N-DBD ) stimulates the function of RAD51 recombinase . Surprisingly , it possesses the strand exchange activity without RAD51 . Moreover , N-DBD stimulates the inverse strand exchange and can use DNA and RNA substrates . Our data reveal a versatile DNA interaction property of PALB2 and demonstrate a critical role of PALB2 DNA binding for chromosome repair in cells .  Breast cancer associated proteins 1 and 2 ( BRCA1 , −2 ) regulate an efficient non-mutagenic pathway of chromosome break repair and are described as guardians of chromosomal integrity ( Venkitaraman , 2014 ) . They initiate RAD51-mediated homologous recombination ( HR ) ( Davies et al . , 2001; Moynahan et al . , 2001; Sharan et al . , 1997; Venkitaraman , 2000 ) and facilitate restart of stalled replication ( Badie et al . , 2010; Lomonosov et al . , 2003; Schlacher et al . , 2011 ) . BRCA2 belongs to a ubiquitous family of Recombination Mediator Proteins ( RMPs ) , which stimulate formation of recombinase filament on single-stranded ( ss ) DNA protected by ssDNA-binding proteins , like SSB and RPA ( Beernink and Morrical , 1999; Cox , 2007; Kowalczykowski , 2005 ) . The Partner and Localizer of BRCA2 ( PALB2 ) protein was discovered as a protein forming a complex with BRCA2 and regulating BRCA2 activity ( Xia et al . , 2006 ) . Like BRCA proteins , PALB2 is an essential mammalian protein linked to a similar spectrum of cancers and Fanconi anemia ( Ducy et al . , 2019; Pauty et al . , 2014; Xia et al . , 2007 ) . The PALB2 C-terminal WD40 domain interacts with BRCA2 ( Oliver et al . , 2009; Xia et al . , 2006 ) while the N-terminus forms a complex with BRCA1 ( Zhang et al . , 2009a; Zhang et al . , 2009b ) . The latter localizes at double-stranded DNA break ( DSB ) sites at earlier stage of repair , inhibiting an alternative pathway of non-homologous end joining and initiating homology-directed repair ( HDR ) through recruitment of PALB2/BRCA2/RAD51 ( Prakash et al . , 2015 ) . PALB2 is often described as the hub for a network of tumor suppressors ( Park et al . , 2014b; Sy et al . , 2009b ) . In addition to BRCA1 and −2 interactions , it contains a chromatin-association motif ( ChAM ) that interacts with histones H3 and H2B ( Bleuyard et al . , 2012 ) . PALB2 binds MRG15 protein , a component of histone acetyltransferase-deacetylase complexes ( Hayakawa et al . , 2010; Sy et al . , 2009a ) ; RAD51 and its paralogs RAD51C , RAD51AP1 and XRCC3 ( Dray et al . , 2010; Park et al . , 2014a ) ; translesion DNA polymerase η ( Polη ) during recombination-associated DNA synthesis ( Buisson et al . , 2014 ) ; an oxidative stress response protein KEAP1 ( Ma et al . , 2012 ) ; and RNF168 ubiquitin ligase ( Luijsterburg et al . , 2017 ) . PALB2 is ubiquitinylated in G1 phase of the cell cycle by KEAP1 and CUL3 , leading to its degradation , and , thereby , restraining its activity in S/G2 ( Orthwein et al . , 2015 ) . Furthermore , PALB2 is an RMP itself as it promotes the assembly of RAD51-ssDNA presynaptic nucleofilaments in the absence of BRCA2 in vitro ( Buisson et al . , 2010; Dray et al . , 2010 ) . PALB2 recruits Polη to DSB sites and stimulates recombination-associated DNA synthesis by Polη ( Buisson et al . , 2014 ) . Apart from protein-protein interaction domains , BRCA1 , −2 and PALB2 proteins also contain DNA binding domains ( DBDs ) , the function of which is poorly understood ( Buisson et al . , 2010; Dray et al . , 2010; Paull et al . , 2001; Pellegrini et al . , 2002 ) . Recently , studies of BRCA1/BARD1 complex interaction with DNA and RAD51 led to the discovery of the BRCA1/BARD1 role in RAD51-mediated strand invasion and D-loop formation ( Zhao et al . , 2017 ) . Most missense mutations in the BRCA2 DBD are pathogenic ( Guidugli et al . , 2013; Wu et al . , 2005 ) . Disruption of DNA binding in a BRCA2 truncation variant lacking the PALB2-binding motif leads to a significant HDR reduction ( Siaud et al . , 2011 ) . However , deletion of the BRCA2 DBD has a negligible effect when interaction with PALB2 is preserved , highlighting the functional importance of the previously reported DNA-binding property of PALB2 ( Buisson et al . , 2010; Dray et al . , 2010 ) . Two truncation fragments of PALB2 , T1 ( residues 1–200 ) and T3 ( residues 372–561 ) , bind DNA ( Buisson et al . , 2010 ) . While the precise mechanism of DNA interaction and its functional role remain unknown , several reports indirectly support its importance in DNA repair . For example , PALB2 truncation of 500 amino acids situated between the BRCA1 and BRCA2 binding motifs and containing both DBDs does not support BRCA2 and RAD51 foci formation in cells during DNA damage ( Sy et al . , 2009b ) . Since both the BRCA1-binding N-terminal and the BRCA2-interacting WD40 C-terminal domains are retained in this mutant , the results points to the potential importance of DBDs in PALB2 function . The importance of DNA binding was demonstrated for other RMPs , including bacterial RecFOR ( Korolev , 2017; Morimatsu and Kowalczykowski , 2003; Ryzhikov et al . , 2014; Sakai and Cox , 2009; Umezu et al . , 1993 ) and eukaryotic RAD52 ( Arai et al . , 2011; Seong et al . , 2008 ) . In the current study , we identified a major DBD of PALB2 ( N-DBD ) and specific amino acids involved in DNA binding . Mutations of only four amino acids significantly reduce RAD51 foci formation and the efficiency of HDR in a model cell system . PALB2 N-DBD by itself stimulates RAD51 strand exchange reactions . Surprisingly , we found that the PALB2 N-DBD supports both forward and inverse strand exchange even in the absence of RAD51 and can use RNA as a substrate . Altogether , our data reveal a novel activity of PALB2 and highlight the importance of PALB2 DNA binding in chromosome maintenance . 
Filaments of all actin-like proteins known to date are assembled from pairs of protofilaments that are arranged in a parallel fashion , generating polarity . In this study , we show that the prokaryotic actin homologue MreB forms pairs of protofilaments that adopt an antiparallel arrangement in vitro and in vivo . We provide an atomic view of antiparallel protofilaments of Caulobacter MreB as apparent from crystal structures . We show that a protofilament doublet is essential for MreB's function in cell shape maintenance and demonstrate by in vivo site-specific cross-linking the antiparallel orientation of MreB protofilaments in E . coli . 3D cryo-EM shows that pairs of protofilaments of Caulobacter MreB tightly bind to membranes . Crystal structures of different nucleotide and polymerisation states of Caulobacter MreB reveal conserved conformational changes accompanying antiparallel filament formation . Finally , the antimicrobial agents A22/MP265 are shown to bind close to the bound nucleotide of MreB , presumably preventing nucleotide hydrolysis and destabilising double protofilaments .  Cell shape is a characteristic and hereditary feature that is crucial for existence and its regulation is a common challenge for organisms across all biological kingdoms . Shape in eukaryotic cells is provided by the cytoskeleton that consists of actin , tubulin , and intermediate filaments . Prokaryotes also have a dynamic , filamentous network of proteins , which are homologous to the eukaryotic cytoskeletal elements ( Löwe and Amos , 2009 ) . In non-spherical bacteria , the actin homologue MreB ( Jones et al . , 2001; van den Ent et al . , 2001 ) is essential for shape maintenance as depletion of MreB through genetic knockouts or MreB-targeted drug treatment results in misshapen cells that eventually lyse ( Wachi et al . , 1987; Levin et al . , 1992; Lee et al . , 2003; Bendezú and de Boer , 2008 ) . Incorrect localisation of MreB adversely affects polar targeting of protein complexes and , in some organisms , chromosome segregation ( Gitai et al . , 2004 , 2005; Wagner et al . , 2005; Cowles and Gitai , 2010 ) . Vital for MreB's role in cell shape determination is the interaction with the elongasome , the protein complex orchestrating peptidoglycan cell wall morphogenesis . The elongasome consists of MreC and MreD ( MreB's operon partners ) , RodA , PBP1A , PBP2 , RodZ , as well as MurF , MurG and MraY ( Alyahya et al . , 2009; Favini-Stabile et al . , 2013; Gaballah et al . , 2011; Holtje , 1996; Mattei et al . , 2010; Mohammadi et al . , 2007; Shiomi et al . , 2008; Szwedziak and Löwe , 2013; van den Ent et al . , 2006; van den Ent et al . , 2010 ) . The elongasome ensures that new glycan strands cross-linked by short peptides are inserted along the peptidoglycan scaffold during cell elongation ( den Blaauwen et al . , 2008; Goffin and Ghuysen , 1998; Matsuhashi et al . , 1990; Scheffers et al . , 2004; Scheffers and Pinho , 2005 ) . The peptidoglycan layer provides structural integrity to the cell wall and counteracts turgor-induced lysis . The existence of helical , cytomotive bundles of MreB originally observed along the length of rod-shaped cells ( Jones et al . , 2001; Carballido-López and Errington , 2003; Figge et al . , 2004; Gitai et al . , 2004; Slovak et al . , 2005; Vats and Rothfield , 2007; Löwe and Amos , 2009 ) has been questioned by recent light microscopy studies that suggest MreB forms discontinuous fibres underneath the cell membrane that are driven by the elongasome itself ( Dominguez-Escobar et al . , 2011; Garner et al . , 2011; van Teeffelen et al . , 2011; Olshausen et al . , 2013; Reimold et al . , 2013 ) . The MreB fibres are attached to the cell membrane via a hydrophobic loop in Thermotoga maritima as well as Gram+ bacteria and via an additional N-terminal amphipathic helix in Gram− bacteria ( Salje et al . , 2011; Maeda et al . , 2012 ) . The tendency of purified MreB from Gram− bacteria to aggregate can be attributed to the presence of these hydrophobic sequences . Hence , previous biochemical and structural work has focussed on MreB from T . maritima ( TmMreB ) that can be obtained in much higher quantities than E . coli MreB ( Nurse and Marians , 2013 ) or B . subtilis MreB ( Mayer and Amann , 2009 ) . MreB assembles into straight , double protofilaments in the presence of ATP or GTP and these can gather laterally into sheets ( Nurse and Marians , 2013; Popp et al . , 2010b; van den Ent et al . , 2001 ) . Although the architecture of a single protofilament is surprisingly conserved within the actin family of proteins ( van den Ent et al . , 2001; Gayathri et al . , 2013; Popp et al . , 2010c , 2012; Szwedziak et al . , 2012; van den Ent et al . , 2002 ) , the assembly of protofilaments into higher order structures differs greatly ( Ozyamak et al . , 2013b ) . The overall architecture has implications for filament polarity , which affects differential growth of the filament ends and directional movement . Force-generating motors that push plasmids apart all contain pairs of parallel helical protofilaments as their basic building block ( Gayathri et al . , 2012 , 2013; Polka et al . , 2009; Popp et al . , 2010a , 2010c , 2012; van den Ent et al . , 2002; Galkin et al . , 2012 ) . Presumably , the membrane-binding ability of MreB and FtsA constrains their filament architecture to straight ( or slightly bent ) , rather than helical , pairs of protofilaments . But how are these filaments arranged ? Here , we demonstrate that MreB from Caulobacter crescentus forms pairs of antiparallel protofilaments as revealed by crystal structures , an architecture unprecedented among actin-like proteins . The antiparallel arrangement ensures that the amphipathic helix of each protofilament binds to membranes as shown by cryo-electron microscopy ( cryo-EM ) . Pairs of protofilaments are essential for cell shape maintenance in Escherichia coli and these are shown to be oriented in an antiparallel fashion by in vivo cross-linking . The mechanism for protofilament formation of C . crescentus MreB is elucidated by crystallography and shown to be reminiscent of that of other actin-like proteins , revealing the typical domain closure upon polymerisation . Finally , co-crystallisation studies of Caulobacter MreB with the antimicrobial reagents A22 and MP265 explain their inhibitory mechanism and shed light on the activation mechanism of ATP hydrolysis during polymerisation . 
Invariant floral forms are important for reproductive success and robust to natural perturbations . Petal number , for example , is invariant in Arabidopsis thaliana flowers . However , petal number varies in the closely related species Cardamine hirsuta , and the genetic basis for this difference between species is unknown . Here we show that divergence in the pleiotropic floral regulator APETALA1 ( AP1 ) can account for the species-specific difference in petal number robustness . This large effect of AP1 is explained by epistatic interactions: A . thaliana AP1 confers robustness by masking the phenotypic expression of quantitative trait loci controlling petal number in C . hirsuta . We show that C . hirsuta AP1 fails to complement this function of A . thaliana AP1 , conferring variable petal number , and that upstream regulatory regions of AP1 contribute to this divergence . Moreover , variable petal number is maintained in C . hirsuta despite sufficient standing genetic variation in natural accessions to produce plants with four-petalled flowers .  Determining the genetic basis of developmental traits , and how these evolve to generate novelties , is a major goal of evolutionary developmental biology . Developmental systems are remarkably robust to natural perturbations , such that individuals tend to develop normally despite variation in the environment or their genetic make-up ( Wagner , 2005 ) . Therefore , a particular challenge is to understand the developmental transitions between the robust morphology of individuals within a species , and the variation in form between species . Petal number is a robust trait in flowering plants and usually invariant within species and even higher taxonomic orders . For example , three petals are commonly found in monocots while five petals are characteristic of many core eudicots ( Endress , 2011; Specht and Bartlett , 2009 ) . On the other hand , petal number is much more labile in basal angiosperms ( Endress , 2001; Endress , 2011; Specht and Bartlett , 2009 ) , suggesting that this trait was canalized during angiosperm evolution to produce a stable phenotype in the face of genetic and environmental perturbation . Petals are usually required to open the flower and to help attract pollinators ( Fenster et al . , 2004; van Doorn and Van Meeteren , 2003 ) , therefore a stable number of petals could ensure a reliable display of the reproductive organs and a reproducible cue for pollinators . The model plant Arabidopsis thaliana belongs to the Brassicaceae family , which are commonly called crucifers after the cross-shaped arrangement of four petals in their flowers ( Endress , 1992 ) . Petals acquire their identity via the combined activity of A- and B-class floral organ identity genes , according to the ABC model of flower development ( Coen and Meyerowitz , 1991 ) . However , less is known about the genetic control of petal number . In A . thaliana flowers , initiation of four petals depends on the size of the floral meristem , the establishment of boundaries that demarcate the position of petal primordia on the floral meristem , the transient formation of auxin activity maxima in these positions , and the general mechanisms of lateral organ outgrowth ( Huang and Irish , 2015; Huang and Irish , 2016 ; Irish , 2008 ) . Consistent with this complexity , few A . thaliana mutants specifically affect petal number; among them is petal loss ( ptl ) , which displays a variable loss of petals caused by mutation of the PTL trihelix transcription factor ( Brewer et al . , 2004; Griffith et al . , 1999 ) . Other mutants pleiotropically affect petal number , such as mutations in the MADS-box transcription factor APETALA1 ( AP1 ) , which shows floral meristem identity defects in addition to variable petal loss ( Irish and Sussex , 1990; Mandel et al . , 1992 ) . Cardamine hirsuta is a close relative of A . thaliana that lacks a robust phenotype of four petals ( Hay et al . , 2014 ) . Instead , C . hirsuta flowers display a variable number of petals , between zero and four , on a single plant ( Monniaux et al . , 2016; Pieper et al . , 2016 ) . This phenotype varies in response to both environmental and genetic perturbation . C . hirsuta flowers show seasonal variation in petal number , with spring-flowering plants producing more petals than summer-flowering plants ( McKim et al . , 2017 ) . Seasonal cues , such as day length , winter cold , and particularly ambient temperature , all influence the number of petals produced in C . hirsuta flowers ( McKim et al . , 2017 ) . Furthermore , petal number is strongly influenced by natural genetic variation in C . hirsuta . A polygenic architecture of small to moderate effect quantitative trait loci ( QTL ) , that shift the trait in both directions , contribute to petal number variation in C . hirsuta ( Pieper et al . , 2016 ) . Alleles of large effect and low pleiotropy were identified in genetic screens for four-petalled mutants in C . hirsuta , but were not detected by QTL analysis in natural accessions ( Pieper et al . , 2016 ) . Thus , the distribution of allelic effects found in natural populations of C . hirsuta is more likely to maintain variation , rather than robustness , in petal number . Petal number varies both within and between species , evolving from a robust state of four petals , typified by A . thaliana , to a variable state in C . hirsuta . Phenotypic divergence between species is necessarily derived from variation within species , but identifying these evolutionary transitions is not a straight-forward task . This is because similar phenotypes that vary within and between species may or may not be caused by similar genetic mechanisms . For example , the same light-pigmentation alleles that are fixed in a yellow-bodied Drosophila species , segregate in a closely related brown-bodied species and contribute to clinal variation in its body colour ( Wittkopp et al . , 2009 ) . However , in another example , genes responsible for leaf shape differences between A . thaliana and C . hirsuta were not detected as leaf shape QTL in C . hirsuta ( Cartolano et al . , 2015 ) . Therefore , to understand how petal number variation is produced and how it evolved , it is important to investigate both the genetic basis of variation within species and divergence between species . For example , to address questions such as: How many genes contribute to trait divergence between species ? How large are their effects ? Do they have pleiotropic functions ? How do they interact with genes causing variation in natural populations ? A simple prediction about robust phenotypes , such as petal number in A . thaliana , is that they are invariant because genetic variation is reduced by stabilizing selection on the phenotype . On the other hand , a developmental pathway might be robust because certain alleles prevent the phenotypic effects of new mutations . This would effectively buffer the phenotype and hide underlying genetic variation . Previous studies of vulva development in Caenorhabditis ( Félix , 2007 ) , and eye development in cavefish ( Rohner et al . , 2013 ) , support the latter view , showing that there is extensive , selectable genetic variation affecting robust phenotypes , which can be exposed by genetic or environmental perturbation . Moreover , studies that use gene expression as a trait , have mapped QTL that influence variance rather than mean expression level ( Hulse and Cai , 2013 ) , and identified selection acting on expression noise rather than mean level ( Metzger et al . , 2015 ) . However , there are few examples ( Rohner et al . , 2013 ) where the genetic basis of morphological differences between species can be traced to the release of cryptic variation . In this study , we investigate the evolutionary transition from a robust phenotype of four petals , typified by A . thaliana , to a variable petal number in C . hirsuta . We show that divergence in the pleiotropic floral regulator AP1 can account for the difference in petal number robustness between species . This large effect of AP1 is explained by epistatic interactions: A . thaliana AP1 masks the phenotypic expression of all petal number QTL in C . hirsuta and , in this way , confers robustness . We show that C . hirsuta AP1 fails to complement this function of A . thaliana AP1 , conferring variable petal number , and that upstream regulatory regions of AP1 contribute to this divergence . 
Biosynthesis of insulin – critical to metabolic homeostasis – begins with folding of the proinsulin precursor , including formation of three evolutionarily conserved intramolecular disulfide bonds . Remarkably , normal pancreatic islets contain a subset of proinsulin molecules bearing at least one free cysteine thiol . In human ( or rodent ) islets with a perturbed endoplasmic reticulum folding environment , non-native proinsulin enters intermolecular disulfide-linked complexes . In genetically obese mice with otherwise wild-type islets , disulfide-linked complexes of proinsulin are more abundant , and leptin receptor-deficient mice , the further increase of such complexes tracks with the onset of islet insulin deficiency and diabetes . Proinsulin-Cys ( B19 ) and Cys ( A20 ) are necessary and sufficient for the formation of proinsulin disulfide-linked complexes; indeed , proinsulin Cys ( B19 ) -Cys ( B19 ) covalent homodimers resist reductive dissociation , highlighting a structural basis for aberrant proinsulin complex formation . We conclude that increased proinsulin misfolding via disulfide-linked complexes is an early event associated with prediabetes that worsens with ß-cell dysfunction in type two diabetes .  The progression of β-cell dysfunction with endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress in prediabetes , to ß-cell failure with full-blown type two diabetes ( T2D ) , has long been the subject of intensive investigation ( Fonseca et al . , 2011; Rabhi et al . , 2014 ) . What is observed is that a chronic increase in insulin secretory demand over time leads to depletion of ß-cell secretory granule reserves despite a dramatic compensatory increase in secretory pathway activity ( Alarcon et al . , 2016; Rustenbeck , 2002 ) . By electron microscopy , pancreatic sections of human subjects with T2D show a marked increase of ER volume density in β-cells with an induction of ER stress markers triggered by high glucose exposure ( Marchetti et al . , 2007 ) . Similar indicators of ER stress have been established in the β-cells of animal models ( Yang et al . , 2016 ) , such as leptin receptor-deficient diabetic mice [known as LepRdb/db ( Diani et al . , 1984; Laybutt et al . , 2007; Like and Chick , 1970 ) that develop insulin resistance progressing to T2D , which is linked to overeating . Hypersynthesis of proinsulin ( Arunagiri et al . , 2018; Back et al . , 2009 ) is a condition proposed to increase proinsulin misfolding ( Liu et al . , 2005; Scheuner et al . , 2005 ) — which can promote ER stress with abnormal ß-cell ER expansion — whereas suppression of proinsulin protein synthesis actually alleviates ß-cell ER stress ( Szabat et al . , 2016 ) . Insulin-deficiency caused directly by proinsulin misfolding has been proved unequivocally in an autosomal-dominant form of diabetes known as Mutant INS-gene-induced Diabetes of Youth ( MIDY ) ( Liu et al . , 2010b ) , which occurs in patients bearing one mutant and one wild-type INS allele ( Liu et al . , 2015; Støy et al . , 2010 ) . The disease in humans is pathogenetically identical to that seen in the mutant Akita diabetic mouse ( Izumi et al . , 2003 ) or Munich MIDY Pig ( Blutke et al . , 2017 ) – which are animals expressing one mutant INS allele encoding proinsulin-C ( A7 ) Y that is quantitatively misfolded due to an inability to form the Cys ( B7 ) -Cys ( A7 ) disulfide bond . Ordinarily the expression of only one WT INS allele would be sufficient to avoid diabetes , but Akita mice develop diabetes despite expressing three alleles encoding WT proinsulin in addition to the one encoding mutant proinsulin ( Liu et al . , 2010b ) . Both preclinical and clinical data prove that in MIDY , it is the expression of misfolded proinsulin that triggers diabetes; yet MIDY is a rare disease . Of far broader significance is the β-cell failure that accompanies ‘garden variety’ T2D without INS mutations , and though the molecular pathogenesis of insulin deficiency in this condition remains murky ( Halban et al . , 2014 ) , β-cell ER stress is a recognized part of the disease . It has been suggested that β-cells compensate for insulin resistance by increasing insulin production that may eventually overwhelm the ER capacity for efficient protein folding , thereby provoking β-cell ER stress ( Back and Kaufman , 2012; Eizirik et al . , 2008; Herbert and Laybutt , 2016; Papa , 2012; Rabhi et al . , 2014; Volchuk and Ron , 2010 ) . However , in the absence of INS gene mutations , it has not been established the extent to which proinsulin misfolding is present in the early triggering stages of T2D , including prediabetes and mild dysglycemia — prior to more obvious islet failure including β-cell degranulation and dedifferentiation ( Accili et al . , 2016; Kahn , 1998; Kahn et al . , 2009 ) that occurs in both human islets ( Cinti et al . , 2016 ) and rodent islets ( Ishida et al . , 2017 ) . In this study , we have exploited several independent lines of evidence to establish the presence of aberrant disulfide-linked proinsulin complexes in the β-cells of human islets and model systems , in states that alter the ER folding environment , and in T2D progression prior to onset of β-cell dedifferentiation ( Bensellam et al . , 2018 ) or death ( Eizirik and Millard , 2014; Kanekura et al . , 2015; Marchetti et al . , 2012; Papa , 2012 ) . 
SUV39H is the major histone H3 lysine 9 ( H3K9 ) -specific methyltransferase that targets pericentric regions and is crucial for assembling silent heterochromatin . SUV39H recognizes trimethylated H3K9 ( H3K9me3 ) via its chromodomain ( CD ) , and enriched H3K9me3 allows SUV39H to target specific chromosomal regions . However , the detailed targeting mechanisms , especially for naïve chromatin without preexisting H3K9me3 , are poorly understood . Here we show that Suv39h1’s CD ( Suv39h1-CD ) binds nucleic acids , and this binding is important for its function in heterochromatin assembly . Suv39h1-CD had higher binding affinity for RNA than DNA , and its ability to bind nucleic acids was independent of its H3K9me3 recognition . Suv39h1 bound major satellite RNAs in vivo , and knockdown of major satellite RNAs lowered Suv39h1 retention on pericentromere . Suv39h1 mutational studies indicated that both the nucleic acid–binding and H3K9me–binding activities of Suv39h1-CD were crucial for its pericentric heterochromatin assembly . These results suggest that chromatin-bound RNAs contribute to creating SUV39H’s target specificity .  Heterochromatin , a highly condensed chromatin structure , can be divided into two classes: invariably constitutive heterochromatin ( CH ) , and developmentally controlled facultative heterochromatin . CH generally consists of repetitive DNA and is transcriptionally silent , and its higher-order chromatin structure can spread , causing the heritable inactivation of genes adjacent to the CH ( Grewal and Elgin , 2002; Grewal and Moazed , 2003; Richards and Elgin , 2002 ) . The establishment of CH is tightly correlated with changes in posttranslational histone-tail modifications . The trimethylation of histone H3 lysine 9 ( H3K9me3 ) , which is a hallmark of CH , creates specific binding sites for H3K9me3 reader molecules such as HP1 proteins ( Bannister et al . , 2001; Lachner and Jenuwein , 2002; Lachner et al . , 2001; Nakayama et al . , 2001 ) , and these epigenetic states are maintained throughout replication ( Audergon et al . , 2015; Margueron and Reinberg , 2010; Ragunathan et al . , 2015 ) . CH is critical for functional chromosomal domains such as the pericentromere , and epigenetic pericentromere layers are important for accurate chromosome segregation in mitosis and for genome stability ( Allshire et al . , 1995; Peters et al . , 2001 ) . SUV39H ( 1 and 2 ) , an H3K9me3 methyltransferase in mammals ( Rea et al . , 2000 ) , targets CH domains and intact transposons ( Bulut-Karslioglu et al . , 2014 ) . H3K9me3 in the pericentric regions is mainly catalyzed by SUV39H ( Peters et al . , 2003 ) . Therefore , in Suv39h1/2 double-knockout ( Suv39h dn ) cells , the H3K9me3 levels over the pericentromere are severely diminished and HP1 proteins do not accumulate ( Lachner et al . , 2001 ) . The nature of CH and its epigenetic machineries are well conserved in various species , including fission yeast and flies ( Elgin and Reuter , 2013; Grewal and Jia , 2007 ) . In fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe ( S . pombe ) , the RNA interference ( RNAi ) -dependent pathway is essential for pericentric heterochromatin formation and maintenance , and the process of pericentric transcription is coupled with the targeting of the SUV39H homologue Clr4 to chromatin ( Castel and Martienssen , 2013; Goto and Nakayama , 2012; Grewal and Jia , 2007; Moazed , 2009 ) . In the Drosophila ovary , a similar small-RNA-mediated process promotes transcriptional silencing by H3K9me3 and by HP1A , an HP1-family protein in flies ( Castel and Martienssen , 2013 ) . However , it is not clear whether the RNAi-dependent pathway ( or another RNA-based mechanism ) is involved in the process of establishing and maintaining heterochromatin in mammals , such as in creating target specificities for SUV39H and SUV39H-mediated H3K9me3 formation . Suv39h-family proteins have two functionally distinct domains , the N-terminal chromodomain ( CD ) and the C-terminal SET domain . The CD functions as a binding module that targets H3K9me3 marks , and the SET domain is responsible for SUV39H’s enzymatic activity . Since the N-terminal CD of Clr4 is required for the efficient spread and stable inheritance of H3K9me3 marks ( Al-Sady et al . , 2013; Noma et al . , 2004; Ragunathan et al . , 2015; Zhang et al . , 2008 ) , it has been suggested that Suv39/Clr4 uses a direct read-write mechanism to maintain the H3K9me3 marks on CH . However , this mechanism alone is not sufficient for converting H3K9me3-free , naïve chromosomal regions to silent heterochromatin . Here we demonstrated that Suv39h1-CD can bind nucleic acids , and that this binding is crucial for Suv39h1’s function . Suv39h-CD prefers to bind ssRNA rather than dsDNA , and Suv39h-CD’s nucleic acid binding is independent of its H3K9me3 recognition . Mutational analyses revealed that both the nucleic acid- and H3K9me3-binding activities of Suv39h1 are important for its induction of heterochromatin assembly . We also showed that Suv39h1 bound major satellite RNA in vivo in a manner dependent on its nucleic acid-binding activity and that knockdown of major satellite RNAs lowered Suv39h1 retention on pericentric heterochromatin . Our data suggest that chromatin-bound RNAs contribute to the targeting and retention of Suv39h1 at specific chromosomal regions . 
Grid cells in the entorhinal cortex allow for the precise decoding of position in space . Along with potentially playing an important role in navigation , grid cells have recently been hypothesized to make a general contribution to mental operations . A prerequisite for this hypothesis is that grid cell activity does not critically depend on physical movement . Here , we show that movement of covert attention , without any physical movement , also elicits spatial receptive fields with a triangular tiling of space . In monkeys trained to maintain central fixation while covertly attending to a stimulus moving in the periphery we identified a significant population ( 20/141 , 14% neurons at a FDR <5% ) of entorhinal cells with spatially structured receptive fields . This contrasts with recordings obtained in the hippocampus , where grid-like representations were not observed . Our results provide evidence that neurons in macaque entorhinal cortex do not rely on physical movement .  Spatial representations , in the form of place cells and grid cells , have been identified in rodents ( Hafting et al . , 2005; O'Keefe and Dostrovsky , 1971 ) , bats ( Yartsev et al . , 2011; Yartsev and Ulanovsky , 2013 ) , macaque monkeys ( Killian et al . , 2012 ) and humans ( Jacobs et al . , 2013; Ekstrom et al . , 2003 ) . The hippocampal formation , however , also contributes to the processing of memories ( Squire and Wixted , 2011 ) , and conceptual similarities between spatial navigation and the processes involved in remembering and planning suggest that grid cells might support cognitive functions besides spatial navigation ( Buzsáki et al . , 2013 ) . This idea resonates well with the recent demonstration that grid cells are active during the exploration of images with eye-movements , that is by overt attention ( Killian et al . , 2012 ) . These findings revealed that grid cells do not only track an animal's location in space , but can also represent the gaze position of the animal . Shifts of gaze location usually correspond to shifts in attention ( Hoffman , 1998; Rolfs et al . , 2011 ) , and the neural substrate for overt and covert attention is largely overlapping ( Corbetta et al . , 1998 ) . Accordingly , grid cells in the entorhinal cortex are potentially capable of representing not only gaze location but the locus of attention in general . Here , we investigated whether firing fields of entorhinal cells are activated by movements of covert attention , in the absence of any physical movement . Attention functions as an important control for mental processes ( Petersen and Posner , 2012 ) ; accordingly , the hypothesis that grid cells participate in a range of cognitive functions predicts that grid cells may be activated by movements of attention . Here , we tested this prediction by recording from single units in the entorhinal cortex in monkeys trained to perform a task of covert attention . 
Progress in science requires standardized assays whose results can be readily shared , compared , and reproduced across laboratories . Reproducibility , however , has been a concern in neuroscience , particularly for measurements of mouse behavior . Here , we show that a standardized task to probe decision-making in mice produces reproducible results across multiple laboratories . We adopted a task for head-fixed mice that assays perceptual and value-based decision making , and we standardized training protocol and experimental hardware , software , and procedures . We trained 140 mice across seven laboratories in three countries , and we collected 5 million mouse choices into a publicly available database . Learning speed was variable across mice and laboratories , but once training was complete there were no significant differences in behavior across laboratories . Mice in different laboratories adopted similar reliance on visual stimuli , on past successes and failures , and on estimates of stimulus prior probability to guide their choices . These results reveal that a complex mouse behavior can be reproduced across multiple laboratories . They establish a standard for reproducible rodent behavior , and provide an unprecedented dataset and open-access tools to study decision-making in mice . More generally , they indicate a path toward achieving reproducibility in neuroscience through collaborative open-science approaches .  Progress in science depends on reproducibility and thus requires standardized assays whose methods and results can be readily shared , compared , and reproduced across laboratories ( Baker , 2016; Ioannidis , 2005 ) . Such assays are common in fields such as astronomy ( Fish et al . , 2016; Abdalla et al . , 2018 ) , physics ( CERN Education , Communications and Outreach Group , 2018 ) , genetics ( Dickinson et al . , 2016 ) , and medicine ( Bycroft et al . , 2018 ) , and perhaps rarer in fields such as sociology ( Camerer et al . , 2018 ) and psychology ( Forscher et al . , 2020; Frank et al . , 2017; Makel et al . , 2012 ) . They are also rare in neuroscience , a field that faces a reproducibility crisis ( Baker , 2016; Botvinik-Nezer et al . , 2020; Button et al . , 2013 ) . Reproducibility has been a particular concern for measurements of mouse behavior ( Kafkafi et al . , 2018 ) . Although the methods can be generally reproduced across laboratories , the results can be surprisingly different ( ‘methods reproducibility’ vs . ‘results reproducibility’ , Goodman et al . , 2016 ) . Even seemingly simple assays of responses to pain or stress can be swayed by extraneous factors ( Chesler et al . , 2002; Crabbe et al . , 1999 ) such as the sex of the experimenter ( Sorge et al . , 2014 ) . Behavioral assays can be difficult to reproduce across laboratories even when they share a similar apparatus ( Chesler et al . , 2002; Crabbe et al . , 1999; Sorge et al . , 2014 ) . This difficulty is not simply due to genetic variation: behavioral variability is as large in inbred mice as in outbred mice ( Tuttle et al . , 2018 ) . Difficulties in reproducing mouse behavior across laboratories would hinder the increasing number of studies that investigate decision making in mice . Physiological studies of decision making are increasingly carried out in mice to access the unrivaled arsenal of genetic , imaging , and physiological tools available for mouse brains ( Carandini and Churchland , 2013; Glickfeld et al . , 2014; O'Connor et al . , 2009 ) . Our collaboration , International Brain Laboratory , 2017 , aims to leverage these approaches by exploring the neural basis of the same mouse behavior in multiple laboratories . It is thus crucial for this endeavor that the relevant behavioral assays be reproducible both in methods and in results . Studying decision-making requires a task that places specific sensory , cognitive , and motor demands over hundreds of trials , affording strong constraints to behavior . The task should be complex enough to expose the neural computations that support decision-making but simple enough for mice to learn , and easily extendable to study further aspects of perception and cognition . Moreover , it can be invaluable to have ready access to the brain for neural recordings and manipulations , a consideration that favors tasks that involve head fixation . To meet these criteria , we adopted a modified version of the classical ‘two-alternative forced-choice’ perceptual detection task . In the classical task , the subject indicates the position of a stimulus that can be in one of two positions with equal probability ( e . g . Carandini and Churchland , 2013; Tanner and Swets , 1954 ) . In the modified version , the probability of the stimulus being in one position changes over time ( Terman and Terman , 1972 ) . This change in probability may affect sensory decisions by directing spatial attention ( Cohen and Maunsell , 2009; Liston and Stone , 2008 ) and by biasing the decision process ( Hanks et al . , 2011 ) . It modifies the expected value of the choices , echoing changes in reward probability or size , which affect perceptual choices ( e . g . Feng et al . , 2009; Whiteley and Sahani , 2008 ) and drive value-based choices ( Corrado et al . , 2005; Fan et al . , 2018; Herrnstein , 1961; Lau and Glimcher , 2005; Miller et al . , 2019 ) . In the task , mice detect the presence of a visual grating to their left or right , and report the perceived location with a simple movement: by turning a steering wheel ( Burgess et al . , 2017 ) . The task difficulty is controlled by varying the contrast across trials . The reward for a correct response is a drop of sugar water that is not contingent on licking the spout . The probability of stimulus appearance at the two locations is asymmetric and changes across blocks of trials . Mice thus make decisions by using both their vision and their recent experience . When the visual stimulus is evident ( contrast is high ) , they should mostly use vision , and when the visual stimulus is ambiguous ( contrast is low or zero ) , they should consider prior information ( Whiteley and Sahani , 2008 ) and choose the side that has recently been more likely . We here present results from a large cohort of mice trained in the task , demonstrating reproducible methods and reproducible results across laboratories . In all laboratories , most mice learned the task , although often at a different pace . After learning they performed the task in a comparable manner , and with no significant difference across laboratories . Mice in different laboratories adopted a comparable reliance on visual stimuli , on past successes and failures , and on estimates of stimulus prior probability . To facilitate reuse and reproducibility , we adopt an open science approach: we describe and share the hardware and software components and the experimental protocols . It is increasingly recognized that data and techniques should be made fully available to the broader community ( Beraldo et al . , 2019; Charles et al . , 2020; Forscher et al . , 2020; Koscielny et al . , 2014; Poldrack and Gorgolewski , 2014; de Vries et al . , 2020 ) . Following this approach , we established an open-access data architecture pipeline ( Bonacchi et al . , 2020 ) and use it to release the >5 million mouse choices at data . internationalbrainlab . org . These results reveal that a complex mouse behavior can be successfully reproduced across laboratories , enabling collaborative studies of brain function in behaving mice . 
Proper function and repair of the digestive system are vital to most animals . Deciphering the mechanisms involved in these processes requires an atlas of gene expression and cell types . Here , we applied laser-capture microdissection ( LCM ) and RNA-seq to characterize the intestinal transcriptome of Schmidtea mediterranea , a planarian flatworm that can regenerate all organs , including the gut . We identified hundreds of genes with intestinal expression undetected by previous approaches . Systematic analyses revealed extensive conservation of digestive physiology and cell types with other animals , including humans . Furthermore , spatial LCM enabled us to uncover previously unappreciated regionalization of gene expression in the planarian intestine along the medio-lateral axis , especially among intestinal goblet cells . Finally , we identified two intestine-enriched transcription factors that specifically regulate regeneration ( hedgehog signaling effector gli-1 ) or maintenance ( RREB2 ) of goblet cells . Altogether , this work provides resources for further investigation of mechanisms involved in gastrointestinal function , repair and regeneration .  Physical trauma , disease , and aging can damage the digestive tract , causing numerous human gastrointestinal ( GI ) pathologies ( Li and Jasper , 2016; Andersson-Rolf et al . , 2017; Peery et al . , 2019 ) . Mice and Drosophila can repair damage to the digestive epithelium , and recent studies have elucidated cellular and molecular mechanisms underpinning these abilities ( Gehart and Clevers , 2019; Jiang et al . , 2016; Zwick et al . , 2019 ) . Some animals are endowed with much greater regenerative capacity , and can repair or even completely replace severely damaged or missing GI tissue ( Goodchild , 1956; O'Steen , 1958; Takeo et al . , 2008 ; Kaneko et al . , 2010; Zattara and Bely , 2011; Mashanov et al . , 2014; Okano et al . , 2015 ) , but the underlying mechanisms are far less understood . Regeneration requires precise spatial and temporal control over the differentiation of distinct cell types , as well as remodeling of uninjured tissue . Furthermore , individual cell types can respond uniquely to injury and play specialized roles that promote regeneration ( Gehart and Clevers , 2019; Jiang et al . , 2016; Kumar et al . , 2007; Witchley et al . , 2013; Gemberling et al . , 2015; Mokalled et al . , 2016; Tanaka , 2016 ) . Therefore , characterization of an organ’s composition and gene expression at a cellular level in the uninjured state is an essential step in unraveling the mechanisms required for faithful re-establishment of organ morphology and physiology . Driven by the recent application of genomic and molecular methods , the planarian flatworm Schmidtea mediterranea has become a powerful model in which to address the molecular and cellular underpinnings of organ regeneration ( Newmark and Sánchez Alvarado , 2002; Robb et al . , 2015; Brandl et al . , 2016; Grohme et al . , 2018; Reddien , 2018 ) . In response to nearly any type of surgical amputation injury , pluripotent stem cells called neoblasts proliferate and differentiate , regenerating brain , intestine , and other tissues lost to injury ( Reddien and Sánchez Alvarado , 2004; Rink , 2018 ) . In addition , pre-existing tissue undergoes extensive remodeling and re-scaling through both collective migration of post-mitotic cells in undamaged tissues , as well as proportional loss of cells through apoptosis ( Pellettieri , 2019 ) . These processes are coordinated to achieve re-establishment of proportion , symmetry , and function of planarian organ systems within a few weeks after injury ( Roberts-Galbraith and Newmark , 2015 ) . The planarian intestine is a prominent organ whose highly branched morphology , simple cellular composition , and likely cell non-autonomous role in neoblast regulation make it a compelling model for addressing fundamental mechanisms of regeneration . In uninjured planarians , a single anterior and two posterior primary intestinal branches project into the head and tail , respectively , with secondary , tertiary , and quaternary branches extending toward lateral body margins ( Hyman , 1951; Forsthoefel et al . , 2011 ) . Growth and regeneration of intestinal branches require considerable remodeling of pre-existing tissue ( Forsthoefel et al . , 2011 ) . Remodeling is governed by axial polarity cues ( Pellettieri , 2019; Forsthoefel and Newmark , 2009 ) , extracellular-signal-regulated kinase ( ERK ) and epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) signaling pathways ( Umesono et al . , 2013; Hosoda et al . , 2016; Barberán et al . , 2016 ) , cytoskeletal regulators ( Forsthoefel et al . , 2012 ) , and interactions with muscle ( Adler and Sánchez Alvarado , 2017; Seebeck et al . , 2017; Bonar and Petersen , 2017; Scimone et al . , 2018 ) . However , the mechanisms by which post-mitotic intestinal cells sense and respond to extrinsic signals are only superficially understood . New intestinal cells ( the progeny of neoblasts ) differentiate at the severed ends of injured gut branches , as well as in regions of significant remodeling , providing an intriguing example of how differentiation and remodeling must be coordinated to achieve integration of old and new tissue ( Forsthoefel et al . , 2011 ) . Only three cell types comprise the intestinal epithelium: secretory goblet cells , absorptive phagocytes ( Willier et al . , 1925; Ishii , 1965; Bowen et al . , 1974 ) , and a recently identified population of basally located ‘outer’ intestinal cells ( Fincher et al . , 2018 ) . Transcription factors expressed by intestinal progenitors ( ‘gamma’ neoblasts ) and their progeny have been identified ( Forsthoefel et al . , 2012; Fincher et al . , 2018; Wagner et al . , 2011; van Wolfswinkel et al . , 2014; Labbé et al . , 2012; Zeng et al . , 2018 ) . However , only the EGF receptor egfr-1 ( Barberán et al . , 2016 ) has been shown definitively to be required for integration of intestinal cells into gut branches , and therefore the functional requirements for differentiation of new intestinal cells are largely undefined . The intestine may also play a niche-like role in modulating neoblast dynamics . Knockdown of several intestine-enriched transcription factors ( nkx2 . 2 , gata4/5/6-1 ) causes reduced blastema formation and/or decreased neoblast proliferation ( Forsthoefel et al . , 2012; Flores et al . , 2016 ) . Similarly , knockdown of the intestine-enriched HECT E3 ubiquitin ligase wwp1 causes disruption of intestinal integrity , reduced blastema formation , and neoblast loss ( Henderson et al . , 2015 ) . Conversely , knockdown of egfr-1 causes hyperproliferation and expansion of several neoblast subclasses ( Barberán et al . , 2016 ) . Because these genes are also expressed by neoblasts and their progeny , careful analysis will be required to distinguish their functions in the stem cell compartment from cell non-autonomous roles in the intestine . Nonetheless , because so few extrinsic signals ( Miller and Newmark , 2012; Gaviño et al . , 2013; Dingwall and King , 2016; Lei et al . , 2016 ) controlling neoblast proliferation have been identified , further investigation of the intestine as a potential source of such cues is warranted . Addressing these aspects of intestine regeneration and function necessitates development of approaches for purification of intestinal tissue . Previously , we developed a method for purifying intestinal phagocytes from single-cell suspensions derived from planarians fed magnetic beads , enabling characterization of gene expression by this cell type ( Forsthoefel et al . , 2012 ) . More recently , single-cell profiling of whole planarians has distinguished individual intestinal cell types , as well as transitional markers for neoblasts differentiating along endodermal lineages ( Fincher et al . , 2018; Labbé et al . , 2012; Zeng et al . , 2018; Plass et al . , 2018 ) . Both approaches have advanced our understanding of intestinal biology . However , methods that ( a ) avoid the potentially confounding effects of feeding and dissociation on gene expression and ( b ) overcome the need to sequence tens of thousands of planarian cells to identify intestinal cells ( only 1–3% of all planarian cells , [Baguñá and Romero , 1981] ) , would further enhance the experimental accessibility of the intestine . Laser-capture microdissection ( LCM ) was developed as a precise method for obtaining enriched or pure cell populations from tissue samples , including archived biopsy and surgical specimens ( Emmert-Buck et al . , 1996 ) . Since its introduction , LCM has been used to address a vast array of basic and clinical problems requiring genome , transcriptome , or proteome analysis in specific tissues or cell types ( Mahalingam , 2018; Bevilacqua and Ducos , 2018 ) . LCM requires sample preparation including fixation , histological sectioning , and tissue labeling or staining ( Espina et al . , 2006 ) . For subsequent expression profiling , tissue processing must be optimized to maintain morphology and labeling of cells of interest , as well as RNA integrity ( Espina et al . , 2006; Goldsworthy et al . , 1999; Gillespie et al . , 2002; Golubeva and Warner , 2018 ) . Excision and capture of tissue with infrared and/or ultraviolet lasers is then performed using one of several commercial LCM systems ( Bevilacqua and Ducos , 2018 ) . Here , we report the application of LCM for expression profiling of the planarian intestine . We first identified appropriate tissue-processing conditions for extraction of intact RNA from planarian tissue sections . Then , using RNA-Seq , bioinformatics approaches , and whole-mount in situ hybridization , we characterized the intestinal transcriptome . We discovered previously unappreciated regionalization and diversity of intestinal cell types and subtypes , especially amongst goblet cells , and hundreds of intestine-enriched transcripts not identified in recent single-cell profiling efforts . In addition , we identified 22 intestine-enriched transcription factors , including several required for production and/or maintenance of goblet cells , setting the stage for further studies of this cell type . The planarian intestinal transcriptome is a foundational resource for investigating numerous aspects of intestine regeneration and physiology . Furthermore , the LCM methods we introduce offer an additional , complementary strategy for assessing tissue-specific gene expression in planarians . 
Adaptations to an organism's environment often involve sensory system modifications . In this study , we address how evolutionary divergence in sensory perception relates to the physiological coding of stimuli . Mormyrid fishes that can detect subtle variations in electric communication signals encode signal waveform into spike-timing differences between sensory receptors . In contrast , the receptors of species insensitive to waveform variation produce spontaneously oscillating potentials . We found that oscillating receptors respond to electric pulses by resetting their phase , resulting in transient synchrony among receptors that encodes signal timing and location , but not waveform . These receptors were most sensitive to frequencies found only in the collective signals of groups of conspecifics , and this was correlated with increased behavioral responses to these frequencies . Thus , different perceptual capabilities correspond to different receptor physiologies . We hypothesize that these divergent mechanisms represent adaptations for different social environments . Our findings provide the first evidence for sensory coding through oscillatory synchrony .  Evolutionary change in sensory systems can have profound effects on perception and behavior ( Carlson and Arnegard , 2011; Carlson , 2012; Baldwin et al . , 2014 ) . Recently , we documented a striking example of evolutionary change in the electrosensory systems of weakly electric fish ( Carlson et al . , 2011 ) . Anatomical modifications of sensory receptors and the associated brain pathway that processes electric communication signals resulted in a newfound ability to detect subtle variations in these signals . This perceptual expansion led to a dramatic increase in the rates of signal evolution and species diversification . However , how these anatomical and perceptual differences relate to physiological differences in the underlying information processing mechanisms was unknown . Here , we investigate how evolutionary divergence in sensory perception relates to differences in peripheral sensory coding . Mormyrid fish communicate by producing a species-specific electric organ discharge ( EOD ) at variable interpulse intervals ( IPIs ) ( see Carlson , 2002 for review ) . The ability of some species to detect subtle variation in EOD waveforms is related to differences in the anatomy and physiology of peripheral sensory receptors called knollenorgans ( Harder , 1968a , 1968b; Carlson et al . , 2011 ) . In species sensitive to waveform variation , these receptors are broadly distributed across the head , back , and underbelly ( Carlson et al . , 2011 ) . These receptors fire a single , time-locked spike in response to an electric stimulus in all species previously studied ( Bennett , 1965; Harder , 1968b; Hopkins and Bass , 1981; Lyons-Warren et al . , 2012 ) . Spiking receptors encode electric pulse duration into spike-timing differences , with some receptors responding to pulse onset and others to pulse offset ( Hopkins and Bass , 1981 ) . These timing differences are compared in the midbrain ( Friedman and Hopkins , 1998; Lyons-Warren et al . , 2013 ) . In contrast , species insensitive to waveform variation have receptors that produce spontaneously oscillating potentials at frequencies up to 3 kHz ( Harder , 1968b ) . These receptors are clustered into three groups , called rosettes , on each side of the head ( Harder , 1968b; Lavoue et al . , 2004 , 2010; Carlson et al . , 2011 ) . How oscillatory receptors encode electric communication signals is unknown . Oscillations in neural activity are widespread throughout the brains of many animals , including humans , and are known to play important roles in generating rhythmic motor behaviors ( Ramirez et al . , 2004; McCrea and Rybak , 2008 ) . However , how oscillations contribute to processes such as sleep , attention , memory , motor output , and sensory coding remains unclear ( Buzsaki and Draguhn , 2004; Thut et al . , 2012; Canavier , 2015 ) . Oscillations could facilitate multiplexed signal coding in which spikes carry information depending on the phase of the oscillation during which they occur ( Thut et al . , 2012 ) . Another effect of oscillations could be to enhance communication between neural populations during periods of synchronized excitability ( Thut et al . , 2012 ) . Additional hypothesized functions include signal gating , feature binding , and cross-modal integration ( Thut et al . , 2012 ) , although a clear functional role for electrical oscillations in sensory processing has remained elusive ( Canavier , 2015 ) . To gain insight into the neural basis of differences in perceptual abilities among species , here we investigate for the first time how oscillating receptors encode electric stimuli . Using extracellular recordings , we reveal a novel phase-reset mechanism that mediates signal detection by transiently synchronizing the oscillations among receptors . This is the first demonstration of information coding by oscillatory synchrony at the periphery . These phase resets did not encode pulse waveform , explaining why species with oscillating receptors cannot behaviorally discriminate EOD waveform variation . Furthermore , we provide physiological and behavioral evidence that oscillating receptors respond most strongly to communication signals with fast temporal patterns that are only produced by large groups of conspecifics , suggesting that oscillating receptors may be specialized for group signal detection . 
Bacteriophage BPP-1 infects and kills Bordetella species that cause whooping cough . Its diversity-generating retroelement ( DGR ) provides a naturally occurring phage-display system , but engineering efforts are hampered without atomic structures . Here , we report a cryo electron microscopy structure of the BPP-1 head at 3 . 5 Å resolution . Our atomic model shows two of the three protein folds representing major viral lineages: jellyroll for its cement protein ( CP ) and HK97-like ( ‘Johnson’ ) for its major capsid protein ( MCP ) . Strikingly , the fold topology of MCP is permuted non-circularly from the Johnson fold topology previously seen in viral and cellular proteins . We illustrate that the new topology is likely the only feasible alternative of the old topology . β-sheet augmentation and electrostatic interactions contribute to the formation of non-covalent chainmail in BPP-1 , unlike covalent inter-protein linkages of the HK97 chainmail . Despite these complex interactions , the termini of both CP and MCP are ideally positioned for DGR-based phage-display engineering .  Capsid proteins of non-enveloped viruses fall , so far , into three major structural classes: the β-jellyroll , the HK97 fold , and the fold of dsRNA-virus shell proteins ( Bamford et al . , 2005; Oksanen et al . , 2012 ) . The RNA bacteriophage MS2 subunits have a fourth structure , not yet found in eukaryotic viruses ( Valegard et al . , 1990 ) . The HK97 fold is present not only in a large number of dsDNA bacteriophage capsids , including the T-phages , lambdoid phages , etc , but also in the major capsid protein of eukaryotic herpesviruses ( Bamford et al . , 2005 ) . In HK97 itself , the intersubunit contacts are reinforced by a post-assembly covalent linkage—an isopeptide bond between adjacent gp5 subunits , so positioned that the entire capsid is topologically interlinked in a ‘chainmail’ arrangement ( Duda , 1998; Wikoff et al . , 2000 ) . In other cases , such as bacteriophage λ , the non-covalent interactions between the subunits are reinforced by an additional ‘cement’ protein , which binds on the outer surface of the capsid at positions close to those of the isopeptide bonds in HK97 ( Lander et al . , 2008 ) . Heads of bacteriophage λ defective in this cement protein break down during DNA packaging ( Sternberg and Weisberg , 1977; Fuller et al . , 2007; Lander et al . , 2008 ) . Bacteriophage BPP-1 is a short-tailed , dsDNA virus and a member of the Podoviridae family . It infects and kills Bordetella species that cause whooping cough in humans and respiratory diseases in other mammals . It has a T = 7l icosahedral capsid , ∼670 Å in diameter . A 7 Å resolution cryoEM structure of BPP-1 showed that its capsid protein has an HK97-like fold , but the shell has an additional protein component ( Dai et al . , 2010 ) . Lacking information at the time about their genetic identities , these proteins were named according to their structural roles: a major capsid protein ( MCP ) and a ‘cement protein’ ( CP ) that decorates the shell . From a biotechnology standpoint , BPP-1 has emerged as an attractive phage-display system thanks to its unique and well characterized diversity-generating retro-element ( DGR ) . As the only known source of massive DNA sequence deviation in prokaryotes , DGRs use a unique reverse transcriptase-based mechanism to introduce targeted diversity into protein-coding DNA sequences to accelerate the evolution of adaptive traits ( Liu et al . , 2002; Guo et al . , 2008 ) . As such , BPP-1 is a naturally occurring diversity-generating system and can be engineered to display foreign proteins with adaptive heterologous sequences . An atomic description of the BPP-1 head will enhance bioengineering efforts , reveal non-covalent molecular interactions conducive of stable bacteriophage capsid formation , and clarify evolutionary relationships of BPP-1 MCP and CP with proteins in other viruses . In this study , we report the three-dimensional ( 3D ) structure of the BPP-1 head at ∼3 . 5 Å resolution determined by single-particle cryoEM and derived an atomic model . Both our structural and structure-based mutagenesis studies reveal major novelties in the BPP-1 MCP and CP structures and their interactions . We also show that the C-termini of both MCP and CP are ideally positioned to display DGR-diversified peptide libraries for protein engineering applications . 
Dengue virus ( DENV ) cycles between mosquito and mammalian hosts . To examine how DENV populations adapt to these different host environments , we used serial passage in human and mosquito cell lines and estimated fitness effects for all single-nucleotide variants in these populations using ultra-deep sequencing . This allowed us to determine the contributions of beneficial and deleterious mutations to the collective fitness of the population . Our analysis revealed that the continuous influx of a large burden of deleterious mutations counterbalances the effect of rare , host-specific beneficial mutations to shape the path of adaptation . Beneficial mutations preferentially map to intrinsically disordered domains in the viral proteome and cluster to defined regions in the genome . These phenotypically redundant adaptive alleles may facilitate host-specific DENV adaptation . Importantly , the evolutionary constraints described in our simple system mirror trends observed across DENV and Zika strains , indicating it recapitulates key biophysical and biological constraints shaping long-term viral evolution .  The evolutionary capacity of RNA viruses allows them to rapidly adapt to their environment and overcome barriers to infection ( Alto et al . , 2013; Dolan et al . , 2018; Domingo and Perales , 2014; Sanjuán , 2016 ) . Quantifying the evolutionary dynamics of virus populations in controlled experimental systems can reveal biological constraints on the viral genome , molecular mechanisms of viral adaptation , and fundamental biophysical and population genetic principles governing molecular evolution in general . Arthropod-borne viruses , or arboviruses , such as Dengue ( DENV ) , Zika ( ZIKV ) , and Chikungunya ( CHIKV ) , are a significant cause of disease globally , with half of the world’s population exposed to arboviral vectors . DENV alone causes approximately 390 million infections and 10 , 000 deaths annually ( Bhatt et al . , 2013; Messina et al . , 2019 ) . Arboviruses must cycle between vertebrate and invertebrate hosts , which differ significantly in body temperature , cellular environment , and mode of antiviral immunity , raising questions about the evolutionary strategies they may employ to replicate in these different host environments . Several studies have addressed these alternative landscapes experimentally in vitro and in vivo , identifying mutations that confer increased fitness in each host ( Coffey and Vignuzzi , 2011; Filomatori et al . , 2017; Forrester et al . , 2014; Greene et al . , 2005; Pompon et al . , 2017; Sessions et al . , 2015; Stapleford et al . , 2014; Villordo et al . , 2015 ) . However , we still lack a comprehensive picture of the alternative genotype-fitness landscapes of any arbovirus defined by the human and insect host environments . Comparing the evolutionary dynamics of viral populations across different host environments could highlight key points of host-specific selection and define the patterns of evolutionary constraint that define the landscape in each host . RNA viruses exist as a dynamic population of co-circulating genotypes surrounding a master sequence ( Domingo , 2002; Domingo et al . , 2012; Holland et al . , 1992; Lauring and Andino , 2010; Wilke , 2005 ) . It is becoming increasingly clear that the distribution and dynamics of minor alleles play important roles in population fitness , adaptation , and disease ( Andino and Domingo , 2015; Bordería et al . , 2015; Grad et al . , 2014; Shirogane et al . , 2012; Vignuzzi et al . , 2006; Xue et al . , 2018 , Xue et al . , 2016 ) ; furthermore , the neighborhood of connected genotypes is thought to be important to population fitness ( Moratorio et al . , 2017 ) . The genomes of viruses that alternate between hosts , such as arboviruses , are subject to selection in distinct environments , raising the question of how these viruses maintain fitness over alternating hosts . Emerging deep-sequencing techniques allow us to probe the mutational landscape . Library-based methods , such as deep mutational scanning ( DMS ) , screen defined collections of sequences against specific selective pressures . DMS can quantify the fitness effects of individual mutations in viral genomes through intentional diversification of protein sequences ( Ashenberg et al . , 2017; Setoh et al . , 2019; Thyagarajan and Bloom , 2014; Visher et al . , 2016 ) . However , these approaches do not capture the evolutionary dynamics of natural populations . The analysis of naturally occurring variation and evolution in experimental virus populations has been limited to allele frequencies greater 1 in 1000 , due to the error rates associated with reverse transcriptase used in cDNA synthesis . Recently , high-accuracy sequencing approaches that control for sequencing errors through barcoding , like PrimerID ( Jabara et al . , 2011 ) , or through template circularization and amplification , like Circular Sequencing ( CirSeq ) ( Acevedo et al . , 2014; Acevedo and Andino , 2014 ) , can detect alleles as rare as 1 in 106 in frequency . This sequencing depth enables the observation of the full spectrum of diversity in samples from evolving viral populations . Thus , the ability to globally trace the evolutionary dynamics of individual alleles in viral populations from their genesis at the mutation rate to their eventual fate in a given experiment allows us to describe the viral fitness landscapes that shape adapting populations in unprecedented detail . Importantly , this depth allows observation of common variants that accumulate under positive selection in each experiment , but also reveals rare variants limited to low frequencies by negative selection . This permits quantification of the contribution of genetic constraint on the viral adaptation process . We here use CirSeq to characterize the fitness landscapes of DENV populations adapting to the distinct environments and cellular machineries of human and mosquito cells by tracing individual allele trajectories for almost all possible single nucleotide variants across the DENV genome . This analysis reveals the influence of both positive and negative selection in shaping the evolutionary paths of DENV in these distinct cellular environments . Analysis of the allele repertoire reveals how fitness of the viral population represents a balance between the dynamics of rare beneficial mutations and the significant and constantly replenished load of deleterious alleles during adaptation . We find that adaptation relies on host-specific beneficial mutations that are clustered in specific regions of the DENV genome and enriched in regions of the proteome that exhibit structural flexibility . Of note , these regions are also sites of variation across naturally occurring DENV and ZIKV strains indicating that our analysis provides insights into genetic and biophysical principles of flaviviral evolution and reveals parallels between long- and short-term evolutionary scales . 
Membrane nanodomains have been implicated in Ras signaling , but what these domains are and how they interact with Ras remain obscure . Here , using single particle tracking with photoactivated localization microscopy ( spt-PALM ) and detailed trajectory analysis , we show that distinct membrane domains dictate KRasG12D ( an active KRas mutant ) diffusion and trafficking in U2OS cells . KRasG12D exhibits an immobile state in ~70 nm domains , each embedded in a larger domain ( ~200 nm ) that confers intermediate mobility , while the rest of the membrane supports fast diffusion . Moreover , KRasG12D is continuously removed from the membrane via the immobile state and replenished to the fast state , reminiscent of Ras internalization and recycling . Importantly , both the diffusion and trafficking properties of KRasG12D remain invariant over a broad range of protein expression levels . Our results reveal how membrane organization dictates membrane diffusion and trafficking of Ras and offer new insight into the spatial regulation of Ras signaling .  The plasma membrane has a complex and dynamic landscape that helps shape how diverse membrane-localized signaling molecules behave ( Grecco et al . , 2011; Staubach and Hanisch , 2011; Simons and Toomre , 2000; Schmick and Bastiaens , 2014; Varma and Mayor , 1998; Garcia-Parajo et al . , 2014 ) . Among others , the Ras small GTPases are prototypical examples of signaling molecules whose biological activities are directly regulated by the membrane ( Zhou and Hancock , 2015; Abankwa et al . , 2010 ) . While biochemical aspects of how Ras interacts with downstream effectors such as Raf have been well studied ( Simanshu et al . , 2017; Cox and Der , 2010 ) , the mechanisms through which the biological membrane defines the signaling activity and specificity of Ras are still poorly understood . Recent studies by us and others suggest that Ras signaling may involve the formation of multimers ( dimers and/or clusters ) in a membrane-dependent manner ( Güldenhaupt et al . , 2012; Nan et al . , 2015; Spencer-Smith et al . , 2017; Ambrogio et al . , 2018; Prior et al . , 2003; Inouye et al . , 2000; Plowman et al . , 2005 ) , and that partitioning of Ras into nanoscopic membrane domains and interactions with scaffold proteins or structures likely constitute critical steps to Ras multimer formation and signaling ( Zhou et al . , 2015; Chung et al . , 2018; Belanis et al . , 2008; Shalom-Feuerstein et al . , 2008; Chen et al . , 2016 ) . While previous high-resolution imaging experiments using immuno-EM ( Prior et al . , 2003; Plowman et al . , 2005 ) or quantitative superresolution microscopy ( Nan et al . , 2015; Huang et al . , 2015 ) were instrumental to revealing the existence of Ras multimers , the resulting images were mostly static and provided limited information about the spatiotemporal dynamics of Ras – membrane domain interactions . Live-cell single-particle tracking ( SPT ) ( Schmidt et al . , 1996; Kusumi et al . , 2005; Saxton and Jacobson , 1997 ) complements static imaging by providing information about molecular motions , and it has been used to study Ras dynamics on the membrane ( Lommerse et al . , 2006; Murakoshi et al . , 2004; Lommerse et al . , 2004 ) . The underlying rationale is that interactions of Ras with different membrane domains and signaling partners would manifest as varied diffusion behavior . Indeed , using SPT , Murakoshi et al . observed transient events of Ras immobilization on the membrane , which became more frequent upon epidermal growth factor stimulation , potentially reflecting the formation of signaling complexes or interactions with raft domains ( Murakoshi et al . , 2004 ) . Lommerse and colleagues also used SPT to probe Ras diffusion and similarly observed transient and context-dependent confinement of Ras in membrane regions not more than 200 nm in diameter ( Lommerse et al . , 2006 ) . These prior studies offered important initial insight into the potential connections between Ras diffusion , function , and membrane organization , but the technical constraints of traditional SPT limited the imaging throughput and depth of analysis in these studies . Typically , only a few tens of trajectories could be obtained from each experiment , which precluded detailed and quantitative characterization of the heterogeneous and stochastic nature of molecular diffusion . In consequence , while the studies consistently reported two diffusion states – a ‘free’ diffusion state and another ‘immobile’ state , it remains to be seen whether a two-state model adequately recapitulates Ras membrane dynamics ( Lommerse et al . , 2006; Murakoshi et al . , 2004; Lommerse et al . , 2004 ) . Thus , the nature of the membrane domains occupied by each of these states and how Ras molecules transition between the states in connection with multimer formation and signaling remain unclear . Recent years have seen significant advances in both experimental ( Manley et al . , 2008; Benke et al . , 2012; Huang et al . , 2018; Basu et al . , 2018; English , 2015; Cutler et al . , 2013 ) and data analysis strategies ( Persson et al . , 2013; Hansen et al . , 2018; Liu et al . , 2015; Jaqaman et al . , 2008; Chenouard et al . , 2014; Shen et al . , 2017; Monnier et al . , 2015; Ito et al . , 2017; Lindén and Elf , 2018 ) of SPT , some of which have dramatically improved the information throughput . Among others , spt-PALM combines SPT with photoactivated localization microscopy ( PALM ) to enable single molecule tracking under dense labeling conditions through stochastic photoswitching ( Manley et al . , 2008 ) . With spt-PALM , it is routine to acquire thousands of diffusion trajectories from a single cell . A growing list of software tools has also been developed to facilitate spt-PALM data analysis ( Persson et al . , 2013; Hansen et al . , 2018; Jaqaman et al . , 2008; Ito et al . , 2017; Newby et al . , 2018 ) . For example , variational Bayes SPT ( vbSPT ) allows construction of a detailed diffusion model from spt-PALM data with parameters such as the number of states , the diffusion coefficient and the occupancy of each state , as well as the state transition rates even when the individual trajectories are short ( Persson et al . , 2013 ) . Additional methods have also been introduced to quantitate various aspects of diffusion dynamics from SPT trajectories ( Chenouard et al . , 2014; Ito et al . , 2017; Manzo and Garcia-Parajo , 2015 ) . These advances help overcome the limitations of conventional SPT and make it possible to analyze Ras membrane dynamics in much greater depth . Here , we report our efforts on combining spt-PALM with detailed trajectory analysis to reveal previously unknown aspects of Ras diffusion on the cell membrane . With carefully controlled expression levels and photoactivation rate , spt-PALM trajectories of PAmCherry1-tagged KRasG12D ( KRas with an activating mutation and thus primarily GTP-bound ) consistently reported three diffusion states , including a fast diffusion state , an immobile state , and a previously unidentified diffusion state with intermediate mobility . Leveraging the large number of trajectories , we were able to spatially map the diffusion states to distinctive membrane domains , estimate the size and lifetime of each domain , and define the spatial relationship between the domains . Moreover , in analyzing how KRasG12D transitions from one diffusion state to another , we discovered that KRasG12D diffusion follows a non-equilibrium steady state ( NESS ) model with net mass flow from the fast state to the immobile state , potentially coupled to the endocytic trafficking and membrane recycling of KRasG12D . Based on these results , we propose a new model to describe the membrane dynamics of KRasG12D , where nested membrane nanodomains dictate the diffusion and trafficking , with implications in Ras multimer formation and signaling . 
A morphogen gradient of Bone Morphogenetic Protein ( BMP ) signaling patterns the dorsoventral embryonic axis of vertebrates and invertebrates . The prevailing view in vertebrates for BMP gradient formation is through a counter-gradient of BMP antagonists , often along with ligand shuttling to generate peak signaling levels . To delineate the mechanism in zebrafish , we precisely quantified the BMP activity gradient in wild-type and mutant embryos and combined these data with a mathematical model-based computational screen to test hypotheses for gradient formation . Our analysis ruled out a BMP shuttling mechanism and a bmp transcriptionally-informed gradient mechanism . Surprisingly , rather than supporting a counter-gradient mechanism , our analyses support a fourth model , a source-sink mechanism , which relies on a restricted BMP antagonist distribution acting as a sink that drives BMP flux dorsally and gradient formation . We measured Bmp2 diffusion and found that it supports the source-sink model , suggesting a new mechanism to shape BMP gradients during development .  Morphogen gradients pattern axonal pathways , the neural tube , the dorsal-ventral ( DV ) and anterior-posterior ( AP ) embryonic axes , as well as multiple organ systems ( Bökel and Brand , 2013; Briscoe and Small , 2015; Cohen et al . , 2013; Rogers and Schier , 2011; Rushlow and Shvartsman , 2012; Sansom and Livesey , 2009; Schilling et al . , 2012; Tuazon and Mullins , 2015 ) . Morphogens are defined as factors that form a spatially non-uniform distribution spanning multiple cell-lengths that instructs different cell fates at distinct levels . Their importance in specifying multiple cell fates in a gradient has spurred decades of research deciphering how they work . In 1970 , Francis Crick proposed that such a gradient could be formed by a source of morphogen flowing to a sink that destroyed it ( Crick , 1970 ) . We now know that the mechanisms by which morphogen gradients are established are diverse and complex , and that understanding these mechanisms is paramount to understanding developmental biology ( Briscoe and Small , 2015; Müller et al . , 2013; Rogers and Schier , 2011 ) . Bone Morphogenetic Proteins ( BMPs ) act as morphogens repeatedly during development , including in patterning the embryonic DV axis , the neural tube , and the Drosophila wing disc ( Bier and De Robertis , 2015; Briscoe and Small , 2015; Rogers and Schier , 2011 ) . BMP morphogen systems are established by a network of extracellular regulators ( Dutko and Mullins , 2011 ) . A crucial class of these regulators is the BMP antagonists , defined by their ability to bind BMP ligand with high affinity , thereby blocking ligand-receptor interaction ( Brazil et al . , 2015 ) . During axial patterning in zebrafish and Xenopus , three antagonists , Chordin , Noggin , and Follistatin play key roles in inhibiting BMP signaling to promote dorsal cell fate specification ( Dal-Pra et al . , 2006; Khokha et al . , 2005; Schulte-Merker et al . , 1997 ) . These antagonists bind to the BMP ligand , preventing BMP from binding its receptors ( Iemura et al . , 1998; Piccolo et al . , 1996; Zimmerman et al . , 1996 ) . In both zebrafish and frogs , Chordin differs from Noggin and Follistatin in its expression domain , its phenotype , and its interaction with the metalloprotease Tolloid ( Tld ) . Chordin is expressed in a larger domain than Noggin and Follistatin ( Dal-Pra et al . , 2006; Khokha et al . , 2005 ) . While the loss of Chordin ventralizes the embryo ( Hammerschmidt et al . , 1996; Oelgeschläger et al . , 2003 ) , the depletion of Noggin or Follistatin alone or together does not ( Dal-Pra et al . , 2006; Khokha et al . , 2005 ) . Unlike Noggin and Follistatin , Chordin can be cleaved by the metalloprotease Tolloid , releasing bound BMP ligand and allowing it to signal ( Blader et al . , 1997; Piccolo et al . , 1997 ) . Previous studies in Drosophila show that the Drosophila ortholog of Chordin , Sog , can act as both a BMP agonist and as an antagonist during DV patterning . To act as an agonist , Sog binds to and moves BMP ligand via facilitated diffusion to regions of Tolloid activity ( Figure 1A ) . Tolloid then cleaves Sog , which releases BMP thus increasing peak BMP levels , a process altogether known as shuttling ( Figure 1A ) ( Eldar et al . , 2002; Marqués et al . , 1997; Holley et al . , 1996; Peluso et al . , 2011; Shilo et al . , 2013; Shimmi et al . , 2005; Umulis et al . , 2010 ) . The shuttling mechanism is essential to Drosophila DV patterning , where Sog shuttles BMP ligand from lateral regions to dorsal regions ( Figure 1A ) ( Eldar et al . , 2002; Marqués et al . , 1997; Holley et al . , 1996; Peluso et al . , 2011; Shilo et al . , 2013; Shimmi et al . , 2005; Umulis et al . , 2010 ) . This shuttling mechanism is required to steepen the BMP signaling gradient and specify the dorsal-most cell fates in the Drosophila embryo ( Eldar et al . , 2002; Marqués et al . , 1997; Holley et al . , 1996; Peluso et al . , 2011; Shilo et al . , 2013; Shimmi et al . , 2005; Umulis et al . , 2010 ) . The shuttling of BMP ligand by Chordin has also been suggested to play a role in DV patterning in Echinoderms ( Lapraz et al . , 2009 ) and Nematostella ( Genikhovich et al . , 2015 ) . It is unclear whether Chordin shuttles BMP in patterning vertebrate tissues . In Xenopus , the shuttling of a particular BMP ligand , ADMP , by Chordin was reported to play a role in DV axial patterning in the scaling of embryos ( Ben-Zvi et al . , 2008; Reversade and De Robertis , 2005 ) . In the mouse , Chordin has been suggested to shuttle BMP ligand from where it is expressed in the intervertebral disc to its site of signaling in the vertebral body ( Zakin et al . , 2010 ) . Mathematical models of zebrafish and Xenopus DV patterning have predicted that Chordin could shuttle BMP ligand ( Ben-Zvi et al . , 2008; Zhang et al . , 2007 ) . The transcriptional profiles of zebrafish BMP components at the onset of gastrulation resemble that of the Drosophila embryo ( Dutko and Mullins , 2011; O'Connor et al . , 2006 ) . In Drosophila , sog is expressed ventral-laterally while the BMP ligand dpp is expressed dorsally ( Figure 1A ) . Vertebrates have undergone a DV axis inversion with respect to arthropods ( De Robertis and Sasai , 1996; Gerhart , 2000; Lacalli , 1995; Sander and Schmidt-Ott , 2004 ) , thus chordin is expressed dorsally while bmp ligands are expressed ventrally ( Figure 1B ) . However , whether Chordin acts as a BMP agonist by shuttling BMP ligand during DV patterning in zebrafish or other vertebrates has not been determined ( Figure 1B ) . In vertebrates , the mechanism by which the BMP ligands and antagonists shape this gradient is unclear . Several potential mechanisms have been proposed: 1 ) an inverse gradient of BMP antagonists imparts the shape of the BMP signaling gradient ( Figure 1C ) ( Blitz et al . , 2000; Connors et al . , 1999; Little and Mullins , 2006; Thomsen , 1997 ) , 2 ) BMP antagonists generate the peak BMP signaling levels by shuttling BMP ligand to these regions ( Figure 1B , D ) ( Ben-Zvi et al . , 2008; Shilo et al . , 2013; Zhang et al . , 2007 ) , 3 ) the gradient shape mirrors the shape of the bmp expression domain ( Figure 1E ) ( Ramel and Hill , 2013 ) , and 4 ) the gradient is generated by BMP diffusing from its ventral source to a dorsal sink of BMP antagonists ( Figure 1F ) . These mechanisms are not mutually exclusive and multiple may act in combination . To identify the mechanism of BMP signaling gradient formation in the zebrafish embryo , we established a robust quantitative imaging method to directly measure the BMP signaling gradient . We integrated the results with a mathematical modeling approach , using the experiments to inform our model selection . The modeling then provided information on key parameters to measure to identify the mechanism by which the BMP signaling gradient is formed . We used phosphorylated Smad5 protein as a direct read-out for BMP signaling in both wild type ( WT ) , chordin mutant , and chordin heterozygous embryos . We quantified nuclear phosphorylated-Smad5 ( P-Smad5 ) fluorescent intensity across the entire embryo at single-cell resolution at different stages of development . Combining the P-Smad5 data with a computational screen of mathematical models showed that shuttling of BMP during DV patterning does not shape the gradient , and that a gradient of bmp transcription cannot account for the gradient of BMP signaling activity . From these results , we conclude that the signaling gradient patterning the vertebrate DV axis is generated by either a source-sink or counter-gradient mechanism . To discern between these mechanisms , we developed and measured the diffusion rate of a BMP2-Venus fusion protein in the zebrafish blastula and found that it is relatively mobile , which supports a large number of source-sink simulations , but far fewer counter-gradient simulations . Our results suggest that significant differences exist between the biophysical parameters of conserved proteins in zebrafish and Drosophila DV patterning . Through quantification and modeling , we present a new view of the mechanism that the BMP antagonists and ligand use to establish the BMP signaling gradient patterning the DV axis in zebrafish . 
Lysosomes are major sites for intracellular , acidic hydrolase-mediated proteolysis and cellular degradation . The export of low-molecular-weight catabolic end-products is facilitated by polytopic transmembrane proteins mediating secondary active or passive transport . A number of these lysosomal transporters , however , remain enigmatic . We present a detailed analysis of MFSD1 , a hitherto uncharacterized lysosomal family member of the major facilitator superfamily . MFSD1 is not N-glycosylated . It contains a dileucine-based sorting motif needed for its transport to lysosomes . Mfsd1 knockout mice develop splenomegaly and severe liver disease . Proteomics of isolated lysosomes from Mfsd1 knockout mice revealed GLMP as a critical accessory subunit for MFSD1 . MFSD1 and GLMP physically interact . GLMP is essential for the maintenance of normal levels of MFSD1 in lysosomes and vice versa . Glmp knockout mice mimic the phenotype of Mfsd1 knockout mice . Our data reveal a tightly linked MFSD1/GLMP lysosomal membrane protein transporter complex .  Lysosomes are dynamic and membrane-bound organelles ubiquitously found in eukaryotic cells . Their major function is the hydrolytic degradation of macromolecules like proteins , complex lipids , nucleic acids and oligosaccharides after uptake from the extracellular space by pinocytosis and endocytosis or from intracellular sources after fusion with autophagosomes ( Saftig and Klumperman , 2009 ) . Hydrolytic degradation is mediated by the concerted action of ~60 different , mostly soluble acid hydrolases . The catabolic end-products of these reactions ( e . g . amino acids , peptides , monosaccharides , nucleosides ) are exported by polytopic transmembrane proteins to the cytosol for anabolic processes . While in the past , the vast majority of soluble proteins of lysosomes were identified due to their deficiencies in lysosomal storage disorders and by proteomics of purified lysosomes or affinity chromatography and most of them have been characterized extensively , much less is known about the low abundant integral membrane proteins of lysosomes . The luminal side of the lysosomal membrane is lined with a dense layer of carbohydrates attached to integral membrane proteins , presumed to protect these membrane proteins from the activity of the abundant luminal proteases ( Wilke et al . , 2012 ) . While the highly abundant transmembrane proteins like LAMP1 or LAMP2 are known since decades , there is still a major gap of knowledge about polytopic transporter proteins , mediating the transport of metabolites between the lysosomal lumen and the cytosol , but also the import of metabolites from the cytosol to lysosomes ( Abu-Remaileh et al . , 2017; Chapel et al . , 2013 ) . Of note , many of such transporters have been biochemically characterized in the 80s and 90s . However , the genes coding for the great majority of those transporters have not been cloned ( Gahl , 1989; Pisoni and Thoene , 1991 ) . Several proteomics-based studies pointing to identify novel lysosomal membrane proteins have been published ( Bagshaw et al . , 2005; Chapel et al . , 2013; Della Valle et al . , 2011; Schröder et al . , 2007 ) . Chapel et . al . particularly aimed to identify lysosomal transporters and one of their top candidates was ‘Major facilitator superfamily domain containing 1’ ( MFSD1 ) . MFSD1 is a poorly characterized protein . It belongs to the major facilitator superfamily ( MFS ) of transporters , one of the two largest family of transporter proteins mediating secondary active or passive transport processes over cellular membranes ( Pao et al . , 1998 ) . MFS transporters move a variety of small compounds across biological membranes . In humans , MFS proteins mediate intestinal nutrient absorption , renal and hepatic clearance , but they have also evolved additional functions in the transport of metabolites and signaling molecules ( Quistgaard et al . , 2016 ) . MFSD1 is co-expressed in the transcription factor EB ( TFEB ) -mediated gene network regulating lysosomal biogenesis and lysosomal gene expression and was thus identified as a direct TFEB-target gene ( Palmieri et al . , 2011 ) . Overexpression of epitope-tagged MFSD1 indicated co-localization with LAMP-proteins , demonstrating that it is indeed a resident lysosomal protein ( Chapel et al . , 2013; Palmieri et al . , 2011 ) . However , there are also reports showing non-lysosomal localization of MFSD1 at the plasma membrane of neurons and the Golgi-apparatus ( Perland et al . , 2017; Valoskova et al . , 2019 ) . In this study , we provide a detailed biochemical characterization of MFSD1 . Endogenous MFSD1 is localized in lysosomes . It contains 12 transmembrane domains and it is ubiquitously expressed in murine tissues . It harbors a dileucine-based sorting motif in its cytosolic N-terminus which is required for its transport to lysosomes . In order to decipher the physiological function of MFSD1 , we generated and analyzed Mfsd1 knockout ( KO ) mice . MFSD1-deficient mice develop a severe liver disease characterized by extravasation of erythrocytes , sinusoidal damage , loss of liver sinusoidal endothelial cells ( LSECs ) and finally signs of fibrosis . By means of differential proteomics of isolated liver lysosomes from wildtype and Mfsd1 KO mice , we identified GLMP as an essential accessory protein for MFSD1 . GLMP is a highly glycosylated lysosomal protein of so far unknown function . Deficiency of Mfsd1 leads to drastically reduced levels of GLMP and vice versa . MFSD1 and GLMP physically interact and Glmp-deficient mice resemble a phenocopy of Mfsd1 KO mice suggesting the MFSD1/GLMP complex to be a stable and functional relevant lysosomal transporter complex . 
Microtubule-based transport by the kinesin motors , powered by ATP hydrolysis , is essential for a wide range of vital processes in eukaryotes . We obtained insight into this process by developing atomic models for no-nucleotide and ATP states of the monomeric kinesin motor domain on microtubules from cryo-EM reconstructions at 5–6 Å resolution . By comparing these models with existing X-ray structures of ADP-bound kinesin , we infer a mechanistic scheme in which microtubule attachment , mediated by a universally conserved ‘linchpin’ residue in kinesin ( N255 ) , triggers a clamshell opening of the nucleotide cleft and accompanying release of ADP . Binding of ATP re-closes the cleft in a manner that tightly couples to translocation of cargo , via kinesin's ‘neck linker’ element . These structural transitions are reminiscent of the analogous nucleotide-exchange steps in the myosin and F1-ATPase motors and inform how the two heads of a kinesin dimer ‘gate’ each other to promote coordinated stepping along microtubules .  Conventional kinesin is the founding member of a superfamily of molecular motors that use the energy of ATP hydrolysis to transport cargo along microtubules , serving essential roles in a wide variety of cellular processes , most notably mitosis and neuronal transport . More than 20 different members of the kinesin superfamily are identified with mitosis alone , underscoring the motor's fundamental importance in the cellular life cycle ( Rath and Kozielski , 2012 ) . Given the important role of this motor protein in health and disease , and particularly its growing prominence as a therapeutic drug target ( Rath and Kozielski , 2012 ) , it is of considerable interest to understand the basic structural and functional features of this motor in molecular detail . Conventional kinesin ( kinesin-1 ) dimerizes via an extended stalk domain that forms a coiled coil ( Figure 1A ) , so that the two catalytic motor domains are situated at one end of the coiled-coil , while cargo-binding domains are found at the opposite end . During active motility , the dimerized motor domains take alternating , eight nanometer steps toward the microtubule plus end , tracking along single protofilaments ( Gennerich and Vale , 2009 ) . Underlying this behavior , each motor domain cycles between conformations that are strongly attached to the microtubule ( no-nucleotide and ATP-bound ) and ones that are weakly attached ( ADP-bound ) . Additionally , binding of ATP during the microtubule-attached phase of the motor domain causes a structural element called the neck linker ( Figure 1A ) to dock along the side of the motor domain in the plus end direction ( Rice et al . , 1999 ) . The neck linker connects the C-terminus of the motor domain to the stalk , so that docking is accompanied by translocation of the cargo and the partner in the direction of travel . These nucleotide-dependent behaviors are thought to operate together to drive motility and force production . 10 . 7554/eLife . 04686 . 003Figure 1 . Kinesin-microtubule complex at 5–6 Å resolution . ( A ) Schematic of a stepping kinesin dimer on a microtubule protofilament . ( B ) Cross-sections of the reconstructed co-complexes of no-nucleotide kinesin ( left ) and ADP•Al•Fx ( right ) with the microtubule , running parallel to a tubulin protofilament . Fourier Shell Correlation curves and other diagnostic information related to 3D refinement and reconstruction are found in Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 04686 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 04686 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Statistics and diagnostic images related to image processing and 3D reconstruction of the kinesin-microtubule complex . ( A ) , ( B ) FSC curves for our 3D reconstructions of microtubules decorated by no-nucleotide and ADP•Al•Fx bound kinesin ( respectively ) . These show signal nearly to the Nyquist frequency , dropping below the 0 . 143 threshold ( 1 ) in the 5–6 Å range . Bold lines correspond to reconstructions in which motion correction was only applied to the initial images . Thin lines reflect a gain of 0 . 5–1 Å in resolution that was achieved by dividing each box segment into three sub-averages of five video frames each , and then separately refining the position and Euler angles of the three sub-averages . ( C ) Representative image of the ADP•Al•Fx sample , after motion correction . ( D ) Post-processed diagnostic image for a 14-protofilament microtubule similar to that shown in ( C ) , depicting the filament in a longitudinally compressed form . Each visible 8 nm repeat ( marked with black arrows ) corresponds to ∼8 repeats in the original filament image that have been averaged together , yielding an 8-fold shortened image with improved signal-to-noise ratio . Note that the contrast has been inverted in this image compared with ( C ) . ( E ) Diffraction pattern obtained by straightening the microtubule imaged in ( D ) using in-plane orientation parameters obtained from the final cycle of reference alignment . Thon rings are visible to beyond 8 Å resolution in all directions . Possibly due to thick ice , Thon rings were rarely if ever observed to extend beyond ∼6 Å resolution , despite the combination of high-voltage instrument and direct electron detectors used in the current work . ( F ) Example of alpha-helical density from tubulin where helical pitch ( arrows ) can be resolved . ( G ) Example of beta-sheet density where individual strands are partially resolved ( arrows ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 04686 . 004 The key structural transitions that underlie kinesin's stepping behavior remain uncertain . Kinesin possesses a Walker-type active site architecture , in which one important structural element ( the P-loop ) coordinates the nucleotide alpha- and beta-phosphates , while two ‘switch’ loops serve as nucleotide response elements ( Kull et al . , 1996; Sablin et al . , 1996 ) . It has long been suspected that these switch loops act as ‘gamma phosphate sensors’ , transitioning from ‘open’ to ‘closed’ conformations in response to ATP . In this type of scheme , closure of the switch loops would propagate across the motor domain via a series of linked allosteric rearrangements in order to dock the neck linker to the motor domain . Moreover , because the switch II loop is N-terminally adjacent to one of kinesin's microtubule-interacting subdomains , sometimes called the switch II cluster , it was further proposed that kinesin could use the same gamma phosphate-sensing mechanism in order to control its microtubule affinity ( Vale and Milligan , 2000; Kikkawa et al . , 2001 ) . Owing to more recent structural findings , however , the preceding ideas are increasingly regarded as incomplete or even incorrect ( Sindelar , 2011 ) . A major barrier to further progress in elucidating kinesin's mechanism has been the inability of cryo-EM methods to much exceed nanometer resolution with kinesin-microtubule complexes ( Sindelar , 2011 ) , making it difficult or impossible to determine which crystal structures of kinesin ( if any ) correspond to the motor's functionally relevant , microtubule-attached states . Recently , a series of X-ray crystal structures of kinesin have been solved in the presence of ATP analogs that are thought to closely resemble kinesin's ATP state on microtubules; these include not only two structures of kinesin solved in the absence of protein co-factors ( Parke et al . , 2010; Chang et al . , 2013 ) , but also a structure of kinesin co-complexed with a dimer of tubulin ( Gigant et al . , 2013 ) . However , it has remained unclear how closely these structures resemble the corresponding state of kinesin when bound to its physiological substrate ( an intact microtubule ) , and structure models for other nucleotide states of microtubule-attached kinesin have remained elusive . These issues have left open the possibility that one or more of kinesin's vital functions may be governed by allosteric pathways not envisioned in the gamma phosphate sensor scheme , possibly involving twisting of the motor's central beta sheet ( Hirose et al . , 2006; Kull and Endow , 2013; Arora et al . , 2014 ) . Of particular importance is whether switch loop closure is triggered by ATP binding ( as in the gamma phosphate sensor scheme ) or by some other event , which would allow ATP binding to have a distinct function . The coordination that occurs between two heads in a kinesin dimer is even more challenging to explain with existing structural models . Recent single-molecule optical trapping studies of kinesin dimers are most consistent with a model in which the leading head of a stepping dimer has substantially reduced nucleotide affinity compared with the trailing head ( Guydosh and Block , 2006; Clancy et al . , 2011 ) . Related to this observation , it was also shown that the nucleotide affinity of the kinesin motor domain depends on the direction of a load externally applied to the neck linker ( Uemura and Ishiwata , 2003 ) . These lines of evidence indicate that kinesin's neck linker may serve as a control lever , ‘gating’ the affinity for nucleotide depending on whether it points forward ( as in a trailing head ) or backward ( as in a leading head ) ( Asenjo et al . , 2003; Gennerich and Vale , 2009 ) . However , the precise nature of this and other proposed gating functions remains under debate ( Shastry and Hancock , 2010 ) and , similar to the monomer mechanism itself , there is little consensus on the structural basis of any type of gating mechanism in dimeric kinesin ( Sindelar , 2011 ) . To address these questions , we exploited recent advances in cryo-EM methodology to obtain structure models of the kinesin motor domain complexed with microtubules in the absence of nucleotide and following binding of the non-hydrolyzable transition state analog , ADP•Al•Fx . Analysis of these structures leads us to infer that kinesin's switch loops , controlled by microtubules , serve as a nucleotide exchange factor while ATP binding docks the neck linker via a clamshell distortion of the active-site nucleotide cleft . The corresponding allosteric pathways deduced from our structures are distinct from prior proposals that originated from X-ray structures of free kinesin or from lower-resolution cryo-EM reconstructions , including a very recent study where the reported resolution was in the ∼6–7 Å range ( Atherton et al . , 2014 ) . Moreover , the resulting mechanistic model for the kinesin monomer can be used to explain key aspects of ‘gating’ between heads of a stepping kinesin dimer and provides a paradigm for future study of other motor proteins such as dynein and myosin , where atomic structures of the motor-filament complex have not yet been determined . 
Maintaining the essential functions of mitochondria requires mechanisms to recognize and remove misfolded proteins . However , quality control ( QC ) pathways for misfolded mitochondrial proteins remain poorly defined . Here , we establish temperature-sensitive ( ts- ) peripheral mitochondrial outer membrane ( MOM ) proteins as novel model QC substrates in Saccharomyces cerevisiae . The ts- proteins sen2-1HAts and sam35-2HAts are degraded from the MOM by the ubiquitin-proteasome system . Ubiquitination of sen2-1HAts is mediated by the ubiquitin ligase ( E3 ) Ubr1 , while sam35-2HAts is ubiquitinated primarily by San1 . Mitochondria-associated degradation ( MAD ) of both substrates requires the SSA family of Hsp70s and the Hsp40 Sis1 , providing the first evidence for chaperone involvement in MAD . In addition to a role for the Cdc48-Npl4-Ufd1 AAA-ATPase complex , Doa1 and a mitochondrial pool of the transmembrane Cdc48 adaptor , Ubx2 , are implicated in their degradation . This study reveals a unique QC pathway comprised of a combination of cytosolic and mitochondrial factors that distinguish it from other cellular QC pathways .  Proper protein folding is essential for organelle and cell homeostasis . Proteins may fail to achieve or retain their functional conformations due to genetic or environmental insults and cells have evolved elaborate protein quality control ( QC ) mechanisms to combat misfolding . QC systems recognize and refold misfolded proteins and , when not possible , sequester or degrade them to prevent their often deleterious accumulation ( Kevei et al . , 2017 ) . Such degradation frequently occurs via the ubiquitin-proteasome system ( UPS ) , where substrates are modified with ubiquitin leading to their destruction by the 26S proteasome ( Metzger et al . , 2012 ) . Ubiquitin modification requires the action of ubiquitin-activating enzyme ( E1 ) , followed by either sequential or concerted activity of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes ( E2 ) and substrate-specific ubiquitin ligases ( E3 ) . Multiple rounds of ubiquitination result in polyubiquitin chains , which can serve as targeting signals for recognition and degradation by 26S proteasomes ( Akutsu et al . , 2016; Thrower et al . , 2000 ) . Other classes of factors play critical roles in substrate recognition and in their extraction from associated proteins or membranes post-ubiquitination , as well as in shuttling to proteasomes ( Buchberger et al . , 2015; Ye et al . , 2017; Zientara-Rytter and Subramani , 2019 ) . Distinct , yet overlapping UPS machinery found at different subcellular locations mediates localized QC of misfolded proteins ( Sontag et al . , 2017 ) . The degradation of misfolded proteins at the ribosome , endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) , nucleus , inner nuclear envelope , and cytosol is mediated by dedicated UPS machinery ( Boban and Foisner , 2016; Brandman and Hegde , 2016; Comyn et al . , 2014; Gamerdinger , 2016; Jones and Gardner , 2016; Zattas and Hochstrasser , 2015 ) . Much of what is known about these subcellular QC pathways was uncovered in yeast using model misfolded substrates ( Bays et al . , 2001; Gardner et al . , 2005; Huyer et al . , 2004; Stolz and Wolf , 2012; Vashist and Ng , 2004 ) and has served as the basis for characterizing mammalian degradation pathways . The most extensively studied organelle-based QC pathway is ER-associated degradation ( ERAD ) . Early steps in ERAD pathways , such as substrate recognition and ubiquitination , are distinct for different substrates and defined ( at least in yeast ) by the location of the misfolded domain ( Carvalho et al . , 2006; Huyer et al . , 2004; Preston and Brodsky , 2017; Ruggiano et al . , 2014 ) . Generally , pathways converge post-ubiquitination , where the Cdc48-Npl4-Ufd1 AAA-ATPase complex and its associated co-factors facilitate unfolding and/or extraction of substrates from their natural environments prior to targeting to 26S proteasomes for degradation ( Olszewski et al . , 2019; Wolf and Stolz , 2012 ) . Mitochondrial proteins are subject to ongoing oxidative insults that can result in damage , misfolding , and dysfunction . Mitochondria require mechanisms to eliminate these proteins to maintain organellar integrity and essential functions ( Voos et al . , 2016 ) . In mammalian cells , the well-characterized Parkin and PINK1 ubiquitin-dependent mitophagy pathway removes portions of , or entire , damaged mitochondria ( McWilliams and Muqit , 2017; Pickles et al . , 2018 ) . In yeast , however , mitophagy appears to function primarily to adapt to metabolic changes , rather than in protein QC ( Fukuda and Kanki , 2018; Kanki et al . , 2015 ) . Furthermore , there is little evidence indicating that mitophagy is ubiquitin-dependent , in accordance with the absence of obvious yeast orthologues of Parkin or PINK1 ( Belgareh-Touzé et al . , 2017; Tan et al . , 2016 ) . In contrast to mitophagy , mitochondria-associated degradation ( MAD ) pathways for individual misfolded or damaged mitochondrial proteins are not as well-established in mammals or yeast . Proteases resident to the mitochondrial matrix , inner membrane ( IM ) , and intermembrane space ( IMS ) can act on damaged or aggregated proteins in these compartments ( Bohovych et al . , 2015 ) . While there is no evidence for proteasomes inside mitochondria , the mitochondrial outer membrane ( MOM ) is fully accessible to cytosolic proteasomes . In fact , the UPS is known to play a critical role in mitochondrial morphology , dynamics , inheritance , and in the degradation of import-deficient mitochondrial IMS proteins and mitochondria-mislocalized tail-anchored proteins ( Altmann and Westermann , 2005; Bragoszewski et al . , 2017; Cohen et al . , 2008; Fisk and Yaffe , 1999; Goodrum et al . , 2019; Matsumoto et al . , 2019; Rinaldi et al . , 2008 ) . A limited number of MOM proteins have also been identified as specific UPS targets in yeast: Fzo1 , Mdm12 , Mdm34 , Msp1 , and Tom70 ( Belgareh-Touzé et al . , 2017; Cohen et al . , 2008; Fritz et al . , 2003; Ota et al . , 2008; Wu et al . , 2016 ) . All of these are native ( i . e . non-misfolded ) proteins , whose ubiquitination and/or degradation may be critical for homeostasis and not obviously related to QC . Of these , only Fzo1 has been examined in detail . The regulated recognition and ubiquitination of this mitofusin by SCFMdm30 ( Skp1-Cullin-F-box E3 with F-box protein Mdm30 ) and its subsequent proteasomal degradation are integral to the process of MOM fusion ( Cohen et al . , 2011; Cohen et al . , 2008; Escobar-Henriques et al . , 2006 ) . However , for the few other MOM proteins where ubiquitination has been analyzed , the E3 Rsp5 has been implicated ( Belgareh-Touzé et al . , 2017; Goodrum et al . , 2019; Kowalski et al . , 2018; Wu et al . , 2016 ) . The involvement of Cdc48 co-factors , Vms1 and Doa1 , has also been both reported and disputed for particular MOM proteins ( Chowdhury et al . , 2018; Esaki and Ogura , 2012; Heo et al . , 2010; Wu et al . , 2016 ) . The degradation of tail-anchored proteins mislocalized to the MOM uniquely requires the AAA-ATPase Msp1 for extraction from the MOM prior to transfer to the ER where they are degraded by ERAD machinery ( Matsumoto et al . , 2019; Okreglak and Walter , 2014; Wohlever et al . , 2017 ) . Thus , a universal MAD pathway for MOM proteins has not been described and many steps in substrate degradation remain unexamined . Similarly , UPS components acting on misfolded MOM proteins have yet to be investigated . In this study , we establish temperature-sensitive ( ts- ) peripheral MOM proteins ( sam35-2HAts and sen2-1HAts ) as QC substrates . The ts- nature of these substrates , coupled with their tight association with the MOM , enabled study of their mitochondrial degradation without concerns of mislocalization to the cytosol or elsewhere . We utilize these substrates to define a MAD pathway for non-native proteins . The proteasomal degradation of these MAD QC substrates occurs at the MOM and requires specific cytosolic and mitochondrial UPS components , most of which are conserved in higher eukaryotes . Our results reveal a requirement for factors not previously implicated in the degradation of native MAD substrates and the combination of components identified defines a distinct QC pathway . 
Extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( ERK ) is a key effector of many growth signalling pathways . In this study , we visualise epidermal ERK activity in living mice using an ERK FRET biosensor . Under steady-state conditions , the epidermis occasionally revealed bursts of ERK activation patterns where ERK activity radially propagated from cell to cell . The frequency of this spatial propagation of radial ERK activity distribution ( SPREAD ) correlated with the rate of epidermal cell division . SPREADs and proliferation were stimulated by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ( TPA ) in a manner dependent on EGF receptors and their cognate ligands . At the wounded skin , ERK activation propagated as trigger wave in parallel to the wound edge , suggesting that ERK activation propagation can be superimposed . Furthermore , by visualising the cell cycle , we found that SPREADs were associated with G2/M cell cycle progression . Our results provide new insights into how cell proliferation and transient ERK activity are synchronised in a living tissue .  Exquisite control of extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( ERK ) MAPK signalling is required for homeostasis in the epidermis and other tissues ( Pouysségur et al . , 2002; Kholodenko , 2006; Khavari and Rinn , 2007; Roberts and Der , 2007 ) . ERK activation is triggered by the activation of epidermal growth factor receptors ( EGFRs ) through binding to their cognate ligands ( Yuspa , 1994; Sibilia et al . , 2007; Schneider et al . , 2008 ) . Precursors of EGFR ligands including EGF , transforming growth factor α ( TGFα ) , and heparin binding EGF-like growth factor ( HB-EGF ) , are generated as membrane-bound proteins and are released through cleavage by matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) including ADAM17 ( Massagué and Pandiella , 1993; Sahin et al . , 2004 ) . The critical role of MMP-mediated release of EGFR ligands is corroborated by the close resemblance of the phenotypes among knockout mice of TGFα , ADAM17 , and EGFR ( Luetteke et al . , 1993; Peschon et al . , 1998; Franzke et al . , 2012 ) . However , little is known about how such cell-to-cell communication leading to activation of the Ras/ERK pathway is dynamically regulated in vivo . To address this issue , we live imaged transgenic ( Eisuke ) mice expressing a Förster resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) biosensor for ERK in order to visualise ERK activity in living epidermis under two photon excitation microscopy ( Kamioka et al . , 2012 ) . During long-time time lapse imaging of the steady-state mouse skin , we noticed the epidermis occasionally appear with bursts of ERK activation patterns , where ERK activation is propagated from cell to cell in a radial wave . We named this new phenomenon as Spatial Propagation of Radial ERK Activity Distribution ( SPREAD ) and investigated characteristics , mechanisms , and roles of SPREAD . Single-cell analysis of SPREAD demonstrated that ERK activation in SPREAD originated from a cluster of a few cells and propagated up to about 50 μm with an average velocity of 1 . 5 μm/min . The amplitude of ERK activation and efficiency in propagation gradually decreased until SPREAD disappeared . Interestingly , the frequency of SPREAD was spatio-temporally associated with that of cell division . SPREADs were significantly stimulated by topical treatment of mitotic stimulation , 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ( TPA ) . The induction was dependent on EGF receptors and the production of their cognate ligands by MMPs . The role of SPREAD in cell cycle progression was studied with Fucci mice , in which G0/G1 cells and S/G2/M cells are visualised by the expression of mKO2-Cdt1 and mAG-Geminin , respectively ( Sakaue-Sawano et al . , 2008 ) . Inhibition of SPREAD in Fucci mice led to significant delay of entry to G0/G1 phase from S/G2/M phase under TPA treatment , suggesting the role of SPREAD in G2/M progression of cell cycle . We also imaged ERK activity of ear skin subjected to epithelial wounding . Interestingly , wounded skin revealed another type of ERK activation propagation pattern , where waves of ERK activation propagated in parallel with the wound edge . Single cell analysis revealed similarity and difference between the wound-induced waves and SPREAD . While the velocity of ERK activity propagation in wound-induced waves was similar to that of SPREAD , the ERK activation waves from the wound edge was relatively maintained during propagation during propagation . In this study , we propose how dynamically growth signal is regulated in steady-state and wounded skin in a living tissue by showing two types of novel ERK activation patterns . 
Circadian rhythms are biological oscillations that schedule daily changes in physiology . Outside the laboratory , circadian clocks do not generally free-run but are driven by daily cues whose timing varies with the seasons . The principles that determine how circadian clocks align to these external cycles are not well understood . Here , we report experimental platforms for driving the cyanobacterial circadian clock both in vivo and in vitro . We find that the phase of the circadian rhythm follows a simple scaling law in light-dark cycles , tracking midday across conditions with variable day length . The core biochemical oscillator comprised of the Kai proteins behaves similarly when driven by metabolic pulses in vitro , indicating that such dynamics are intrinsic to these proteins . We develop a general mathematical framework based on instantaneous transformation of the clock cycle by external cues , which successfully predicts clock behavior under many cycling environments .  Circadian clocks generate biological rhythms that temporally organize physiology to match the 24 hr diurnal cycle . Although these clocks continue to oscillate in constant laboratory conditions , in natural environments they are driven by the external cycle of day and night . Because of latitude-dependent changes in the duration of day and night throughout the year , clock architectures must incorporate mechanisms that respond appropriately to environmental signals , such as dawn and dusk , whose schedule changes throughout the year . Data from several species indicate that circadian clocks adapt to different day lengths by modulating their phases relative to the light-dark cycle ( de Montaigu et al . , 2015; Rémi et al . , 2010 ) . In this way , circadian oscillators are able to coordinate physiological events relative to specific times of day and , in multicellular organisms , specialized mechanisms exist that allow oscillators in different cells to follow distinct times of day ( Herzog , 2007; Daan et al . , 2003 ) . Because the biochemical circuits governing circadian rhythms and light-dark sensing in such organisms are complex , it has been difficult to identify which features of circadian systems are responsible for seasonal adaptation . More generally , it remains unclear what features oscillators must have to respond appropriately to varying light-dark cycles and how those features are implemented molecularly in specific systems . Cyanobacteria present a unique opportunity to elucidate molecular mechanisms in circadian biology because the core oscillator responsible for driving genome-wide transcriptional rhythms can be reconstituted using purified KaiABC proteins , and these proteins have been extensively studied biochemically in constant conditions ( Nishiwaki et al . , 2004; Rust et al . , 2007 ) . Cyanobacteria must contend with large seasonal variations in day length because their natural aquatic environments span a wide range of latitudes ( Flombaum et al . , 2013 ) . Yet , comparatively little is known about how the cyanobacterial clock functions when driven by light-dark cycles that mimic days in different seasons . To study how the circadian clock is affected by light-dark cycles with different day lengths , we developed multiplexed LED illumination devices to grow cyanobacteria in a wide range of light-dark conditions ( Figure 1A ) . We used square-wave illumination patterns in our experiments , and used the times of lights-on and lights-off as experimental analogs of dawn and dusk , respectively . We defined the day length ( τ ) as the total time the lights are on each day ( Figure 1A ) . We found that the circadian rhythm in the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 ( S . elongatus ) follows a simple rule: the phase of clock-driven gene expression scales linearly with day length and remains fixed relative to the middle of the day over a wide range of day lengths . 10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 003Figure 1 . Phase of the cyanobacterial circadian rhythm scales linearly with day length . ( A ) LED array device used to grow S . elongatus in programmable light-dark cycles . Cells grown in a 96-well plate on solid media ( lower plate , green circles ) are illuminated from above by LEDs ( red circles ) . An Arduino microcontroller is used to dynamically change LED intensity in different columns of the plate ( inset ) . Luminescence from the bottom plate is read out every 30 min on a plate reader . Drawing not to scale . ( B ) Drive-and-release strategy to measure phase of the circadian clock under light-dark ( LD ) cycling . Cells were exposed to five entraining LD cycles and then released into constant light . Bioluminescence signals ( PkaiBC::luxAB ) from each well were separated into individual ‘day’ and ‘night’ windows . Data from night portions of the experiment were omitted from analysis ( gray bars ) , and data from the day portions of the experiment were aligned to zero baseline and normalized to unit variance . Dashed lines indicate time of peak reporter signal calculated by parabolic fitting . See Computational methods for details . ( C ) Peak time of bioluminescence ( PkaiBC::luxAB ) in light-dark cycles of different day length ( red squares ) was quantified by local parabolic fitting around the first maximum of the oscillation after release into constant light . Error bars represent standard deviations of peak time estimates from technical replicates ( n = 4–8 ) . Slope of the linear fit ( red line , m = 0 . 53 ± 0 . 01 ) was determined by linear regression . Dashed and dotted black lines indicate scaling of phase with day length for dawn- and dusk-tracking oscillators; green line indicates midday-tracking behavior . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 004Figure 1—source data 1 . Source data for Figure 1B . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 005Figure 1—source data 2 . Source data for Figure 1C . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 00510 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 006Figure 1—source data 3 . Source data for bioluminescence trajectories in Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 00610 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 007Figure 1—source data 4 . Source data for Kendall’s τ correlations in Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 00710 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 008Figure 1—source data 5 . Source data for Figure 1—figure supplement 2A–E . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 00810 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 009Figure 1—source data 6 . Source data for Figure 1—figure supplement 3A , showing bioluminescence output from the purF repoter . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 00910 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 010Figure 1—source data 7 . Source data for Figure 1—figure supplement 3B . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 01010 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 011Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Bioluminescence recordings from PkaiBC::luxAB reporter in light-dark cycles . ( left ) Selected bioluminescence traces ( PkaiBC::luxAB , black ) recorded from individual wells of the 96-well LED array device in conditions simulating day-night cycles of different day length ( same dataset as in Figure 1B–C ) . Data recorded in the dark ( gray bars ) and in the first two hours after lights-on were omitted from analysis . Each trajectory was normalized to the mean and variance of the bioluminescence signal recorded after the release into constant light , and trajectories recorded after release into constant light were fit to sinusoids ( green ) . For illustration purposes here , trajectories were aligned to zero baseline . See Computational methods for fitting details . ( right ) Similarity between the bioluminescence rhythms ( PkaiBC::luxAB ) recorded during light-dark entrainment and after release into free running conditions . Nonparametric correlation coefficient ( Kendall’s τ ) between bioluminescence trajectories recorded in the light during entrainment ( days 1–5 ) and the corresponding time period after release into constant light ( e . g . a 16-hr window in LL for LD 16:8 ) . See Computational methods for details . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 01110 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 012Figure 1—figure supplement 2 . The circadian rhythm of S . elongatus rapidly entrains to 24 hr diurnal cycles with 8–16 hr of daylight . ( A ) Peak times of PkaiBC::luxAB reporter after release into LL from 1 to 7 LD cycles of different day length ( LD 8:16 , LD 12:12 or LD 16:8 ) , as estimated by sinusoidal regression . Error bars represent the standard deviation ( σ ) of technical replicates ( n = 6–8 replicates per condition ) . Lines mark linear fits to the data . ( B ) Slope m of clock phase scaling with day length stabilizes after three light-dark cycles . Slope of linear fits in ( A ) plotted against day length in diurnal cycles . Error bars mark uncertainty in fit slope ( ±σ ) . ( C ) Slope m of clock phase scaling with day length , as estimated by parabolic regression ( see Computational methods ) . ( D and E ) Free-running period of PkaiBC::luxAB reporter rhythms , as estimated from sinusoidal fits ( D ) or local parabolic fits ( E ) , recorded in continuous light after entrainment to 24 hr cycles with 8 , 12 , or 16 hr of daylight . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 01210 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 013Figure 1—figure supplement 3 . Bioluminescence recordings from PpurF::luxAB reporter in light-dark cycles . ( A ) Rhythms in bioluminescence in continuous light recorded from a dawn gene reporter ( PpurF::luxAB ) after entrainment to 24 hr light-dark cycles of different day length τ ( LD 8:16 , LD 10:14 , LD 14:10 , LD 18:6 ) . Following the protocol in Figure 1 , cells received five light-dark cycles and were then placed under continuous illumination . Bioluminescence trajectories from first 72 hr after release into constant conditions were aligned to zero baseline and normalized to unit variance . ( B ) Peak times of the PpurF::luxAB reporter in constant light after entrainment with five LD cycles of different day length ( LD 4:20 to LD 20:4 ) . Peak times were determined by local parabolic regression ( see Computational methods ) . Error bars represent standard errors of technical replicates ( n = 4–8 ) . Straight lines represent linear fits to data from wells entrained to day lengths at least 8 hr long . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 23539 . 013 We biochemically simulated seasonal effects in the reconstituted KaiABC oscillator by driving the Kai proteins with pulses of nucleotides on a 24 hr cycle , simulating in vivo metabolic conditions during day and night . Remarkably , this in vitro system shows a similar linear scaling of clock phase with simulated day length , indicating that core mechanisms for seasonal adaptation are intrinsic to the Kai proteins . We developed a minimal mathematical model for oscillator entrainment based on rapid transitions between distinct day and night clock cycles . The model can account for the ability to track midday if the phase shifts caused by dawn and dusk depend linearly on clock time with appropriate slopes . By calibrating this model with independent measurements in vitro and in vivo , we were able to predict the results of phase response experiments , and the behavior of the clock in non-24 hr light-dark cycles . The essential feature of the model , the linear dependences of phase shifts on clock time , has a simple geometric interpretation in terms of the deformation of the clock orbit caused by a transition between light and dark . Thus , the entrained behavior of the circadian clock can be captured quantitatively by a mathematical framework with a small number of parameters . This framework in turn can be used to guide the design of experiments that probe the molecular origins of key mathematical features . The precisely defined nature of the cyanobacterial clock facilitates such experiments , but the model is general , so we expect it to be useful for other organisms as well . 
Although cardio-vascular incidents and sudden cardiac death ( SCD ) are among the leading causes of premature death in the general population , the origins remain unidentified in many cases . Genome-wide association studies have identified Meis1 as a risk factor for SCD . We report that Meis1 inactivation in the mouse neural crest leads to an altered sympatho-vagal regulation of cardiac rhythmicity in adults characterized by a chronotropic incompetence and cardiac conduction defects , thus increasing the susceptibility to SCD . We demonstrated that Meis1 is a major regulator of sympathetic target-field innervation and that Meis1 deficient sympathetic neurons die by apoptosis from early embryonic stages to perinatal stages . In addition , we showed that Meis1 regulates the transcription of key molecules necessary for the endosomal machinery . Accordingly , the traffic of Rab5+ endosomes is severely altered in Meis1-inactivated sympathetic neurons . These results suggest that Meis1 interacts with various trophic factors signaling pathways during postmitotic neurons differentiation .  Cardio-vascular diseases and sudden cardiac death ( SCD ) are together among the highest causes of mortality in the general population , and ventricular arrhythmias are identifiable in almost all cardiac diseases . The incidence of SCD and the poor outcome of sudden cardiac arrest make heart diseases a leading cause of mortality in young individuals ( Meyer et al . , 2012 ) . Among frequent causes of SCD , numerous genetic mutations have been identified as responsible for arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathies , cardiac malformations or sympatho-vagal dysfunctions ( Basso et al . , 2012; Chopra and Knollmann , 2011; Fukuda et al . , 2015 ) . Congenital cardiac innervation defects or dysfunction are largely implicated in SCD and often involve molecules that are essential for the developmental guidance and axonal growth of cardiac sympathetic nerves , such as Sema3a and Ngf ( Dae et al . , 1997; Fukuda et al . , 2015 ) . Recently , two independent genome wide association studies based on abnormal cardiac conduction as an increased susceptibility to SCD have emphasized a restricted number of genes among which Meis1 ( Pfeufer et al . , 2010; Smith et al . , 2011 ) . Meis1 is a transcription factor of the TALE homeobox gene family , known to play important roles during embryonic development , cardiogenesis and postnatal cardiomyocytes turnover ( Moens and Selleri , 2006; Stankunas et al . , 2008; Mahmoud et al . , 2013 ) . The early steps of sympathetic neurons development have been extensively documented . During sympathetic neurons formation , a concerted cross-regulated transcriptional network induced by BMPs and involving among others the transcription factors Hand2 , Ascl1 , Phox2b and Gata3 initially instructs neural crest cells to a sympathetic fate and a noradrenergic phenotype by up-regulating the expressions of general neuronal markers and the monoamines biosynthesis enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase ( TH ) and dopamine-β-hydroxylase ( DBH ) ( Rohrer , 2011 ) . Subsequently , connecting sympathetic neurons with their peripheral target relies on combined actions of locally secreted ligands of various families of trophic factors ( Glebova and Ginty , 2005; Ernsberger , 2008; 2009 ) . Artn , a growth factor of the Gdnf family of ligands , acting on GFRα3 and Ret , and the neurotrophin Ntf3 are initially involved in proximal axonal growth , and members of the endothelin family serve as vascular-derived guidance cues for sympathetic neurons ( Andres et al . , 2001; Enomoto et al . , 2001; Honma et al . , 2002; Kuruvilla et al . , 2004; Makita et al . , 2008; Manousiouthakis et al . , 2014 ) , allowing sympathetic axons to reach the vicinity of target organs . At later stages , distal axonal growth and target-field innervation are under the control of retrograde Ntrk1/Ngf signaling for most organs including the heart ( Glebova and Ginty , 2004 ) . Ngf is secreted in limiting amounts by target organs and binds the high affinity receptor Ntrk1 to induce its phosphorylation and internalization both by clathrin-dependent and independent mechanisms . Retrogradely transported Ngf/Ntrk1 is mediated by Rab5-positive endosomes . This signaling induces phosphorylation of CREB and allows the maintenance of Ntrk1 expression both of which are required to promote axonal growth and branching of sympathetic neurons within their peripheral target organs , and to protect them from naturally occurring cell death ( Crowley et al . , 1994; Smeyne et al . , 1994; Riccio et al . , 1997 , , 1999; Kuruvilla et al . , 2000; MacInnis et al . , 2003; Ye et al . , 2003; Kuruvilla et al . , 2004; Valdez et al . , 2005; Harrington et al . , 2011; Suo et al . , 2014 ) . Whereas part of the transcriptional program regulating the induction of Ntrk1 expression has been revealed in the peripheral nervous system ( PNS ) through analysis of the effects of Klf7 inactivation ( Lei et al . , 2005 ) , the transcriptional regulation of molecules implicated in retrograde Ngf/Ntrk1 transport mechanisms in particular or endosomal transport in general are unknown . We aimed in our study at investigating if Meis1 participates in neural aspects of cardiac regulation by intervening in the differentiation of sympathetic neurons and how Meis1 mutations could mediate susceptibility for unexplained SCD . In this work , we highlight that loss of Meis1 function in early sympathetic neurons leads to an imbalanced sympatho-vagal regulation of cardiac functions in adult mice resulting in increased susceptibility to SCD . We further demonstrate that this imbalance results from neurodevelopmental defects leading to sympathetic neurons apoptosis and we position Meis1 as novel actor in sympathetic neurons differentiation by its role in distal target-field innervation . Among the target genes regulated by Meis1 , we evidenced a transcriptional regulation of proteins necessary for retrograde transport , endosomes formation , functioning and traffic . Accordingly , following specific inactivation of Meis1 in peripheral neurons , the traffic of Rab5+ early endosomes is impaired and sympathetic target-field innervation is compromised . 
Surface-attached bacterial communities called biofilms display a diversity of morphologies . Although structural and regulatory components required for biofilm formation are known , it is not understood how these essential constituents promote biofilm surface morphology . Here , using Vibrio cholerae as our model system , we combine mechanical measurements , theory and simulation , quantitative image analyses , surface energy characterizations , and mutagenesis to show that mechanical instabilities , including wrinkling and delamination , underlie the morphogenesis program of growing biofilms . We also identify interfacial energy as a key driving force for mechanomorphogenesis because it dictates the generation of new and the annihilation of existing interfaces . Finally , we discover feedback between mechanomorphogenesis and biofilm expansion , which shapes the overall biofilm contour . The morphogenesis principles that we discover in bacterial biofilms , which rely on mechanical instabilities and interfacial energies , should be generally applicable to morphogenesis processes in tissues in higher organisms .  Many of the stunning morphologies that distinguish living entities do not arise exclusively from gene expression programs , but rather from overarching contributions from mechanical forces ( Heisenberg and Bellaïche , 2013; Thompson , 1992; Yamada and Cukierman , 2007 ) . Such morphomechanical processes include the formation of ripple-shaped leaves ( Liang and Mahadevan , 2009 ) , tendrils and flowers ( Gerbode et al . , 2012; Liang and Mahadevan , 2011 ) , as well as the dorsal closure and apical constriction-mediated epithelial folding processes that take place during Drosophila embryonic development ( He et al . , 2014; Solon et al . , 2009 ) . One key feature is common to many of these morphogenic transformations: two or more layers of biomaterials are attached to one another but each grows at a different rate ( Wang and Zhao , 2015 ) . Inevitably , such growth mismatches generate mechanical stresses , and corresponding shape instabilities , which depend on the mechanical and other material properties of the biological constituents , as well as their geometries . Some examples include villi formation during the development of the human gut and formation of gyri and sulci during cerebrum development ( Shyer et al . , 2013; Budday et al . , 2015; Tallinen et al . , 2016 ) . Though ancient in their evolutionary origin , bacterial cells can also display intricate developmental patterns , particularly when they exist in the community lifestyle known as biofilms ( Hobley et al . , 2015; Humphries et al . , 2017; Persat et al . , 2015 ) . Biofilms are surface-associated bacterial communities that are embedded in a polymer matrix ( O'Toole et al . , 2000; Thongsomboon et al . , 2018 ) and are a predominant growth mode for bacteria in nature ( Hall-Stoodley et al . , 2004; Humphries et al . , 2017 ) . Biofilms can be beneficial , for example in waste-water treatment ( Nerenberg , 2016 ) , but they also cause significant problems in health and industry ( Costerton et al . , 1999; Drescher et al . , 2013 ) because they are resistant to physical perturbations and to antibiotics ( Kovach et al . , 2017; Meylan et al . , 2018 ) . Biofilms on surfaces undergo morphogenic transformations , beginning as smooth colonies and , over time , developing complex morphological features ( Beyhan and Yildiz , 2007 ) . Genes specifying matrix components that enable polysaccharide production , cell-surface adhesion , and cell–cell adhesion are required for the morphological transition ( Hobley et al . , 2015 ) . However , the underlying mechanisms that dictate how these biofilm matrix components direct overall morphology are not well-understood . One model focuses on the differential spatial regulation of genes encoding matrix components as the key driver of biofilm morphogenesis ( Okegbe et al . , 2014 ) . Another model suggests that localized cell death serves as an outlet for mechanical stresses and thus determines biofilm morphology ( Asally et al . , 2012 ) . Most recently , theory has been put forward to suggest the possibility that global mechanical instabilities are involved in the development of biofilm morphology ( Zhang et al . , 2016; Zhang et al . , 2017 ) . Here , by combining quantitative imaging , biomaterial characterization , mutant analyses , and mechanical theory , we show that the mismatch between the growing biofilm layer and the non-growing substrate causes mechanical instabilities that enable the biofilm to transition from a flat to a wrinkled film , and subsequently to a partially detached film containing delaminated blisters . The sequential instabilities that the film undergoes , coupled with the generation and annihilation of interfaces , drive the evolution of biofilm topography . Our results demonstrate that bacterial biofilms provide a uniquely tractable system for the quantitative investigation of mechanomorphogenesis . 
The mechanisms generating epileptic neuronal networks following insults such as severe seizures are unknown . We have previously shown that interfering with the function of the neuron-restrictive silencer factor ( NRSF/REST ) , an important transcription factor that influences neuronal phenotype , attenuated development of this disorder . In this study , we found that epilepsy-provoking seizures increased the low NRSF levels in mature hippocampus several fold yet surprisingly , provoked repression of only a subset ( ∼10% ) of potential NRSF target genes . Accordingly , the repressed gene-set was rescued when NRSF binding to chromatin was blocked . Unexpectedly , genes selectively repressed by NRSF had mid-range binding frequencies to the repressor , a property that rendered them sensitive to moderate fluctuations of NRSF levels . Genes selectively regulated by NRSF during epileptogenesis coded for ion channels , receptors , and other crucial contributors to neuronal function . Thus , dynamic , selective regulation of NRSF target genes may play a role in influencing neuronal properties in pathological and physiological contexts .  Epileptic networks arise via numerous mechanisms ( Pitkänen et al . , 2011; Vezzani et al . , 2011; Kim et al . , 2012; Hildebrand et al . , 2013; Rowley and Patel , 2013 ) . Changes in neuronal properties and resulting alterations of network behavior constitute one of the important mechanisms of epileptogenesis ( Yaari and Beck , 2002; Noam et al . , 2011; Goldberg and Coulter , 2013 ) . Neuronal properties may change because of genetic mutations in crucial neuronal genes ( Meisler and O'Brien , 2012; Oliva et al . , 2012; Kingwell , 2013; Papale et al . , 2013 ) or from insult-related alterations of gene expression that affect the levels and function of their products . Whereas altered expression of individual ion channels ( Brewster et al . , 2002; Khirug et al . , 2010; Poolos , 2012; van Loo et al . , 2012; Maslarova et al . , 2013; Shah et al . , 2013 ) , neurotransmitter receptors ( Gonzalez et al . , 2013; Rojas and Dingledine , 2013 ) , and other cellular components ( Zeng et al . , 2009; Maroso et al . , 2011; Jimenez-Mateos et al . , 2012; Liu et al . , 2013 ) have been extensively reported , the nature and mechanisms of the orchestration of these gene expression changes remain unknown: do epilepsy-provoking insults regulate individual genes via distinct cellular pathways ? Alternatively , are there clusters of genes that are co-regulated based on specific common properties , and whose altered expression contributes to the generation of ‘epileptic neurons’ ? ( Brooks-Kayal et al . , 2009; McClelland et al . , 2011b; Kobow and Blümcke , 2012; Roopra et al . , 2012; van Loo et al . , 2012 ) . These questions are critical for the understanding and future prevention of certain epilepsies . Gene expression is dynamically regulated throughout life and influences neuronal phenotype and behavior ( Bale et al . , 2010; Robison and Nestler , 2011; Sweatt , 2013 ) . This dynamic regulation is mediated by transcriptional enhancers and repressors that bind to specific sequences of target genes and modify their expression ( Ballas et al . , 2005; Kohyama et al . , 2008; Hwang et al . , 2010 ) . The repressor neuron-restrictive silencer factor ( NRSF/ REST ) functions by binding a DNA sequence called neuron-restrictive silencer element ( NRSE ) to mediate long-term , cell-specific gene repression ( Schoenherr and Anderson , 1995 ) via complex interactions with co-repressors such as mSin3 and Co-Rest ( Chen et al . , 1998; Andres et al . , 1999; Naruse et al . , 1999; Roopra et al . , 2001; Wood et al . , 2003; Belyaev et al . , 2004; Kuwabara et al . , 2004; Mortazavi et al . , 2006; Johnson et al . , 2007; Abrajano et al . , 2009 ) . NRSF is highly expressed in non-neuronal tissues where it represses neuronal genes ( Ballas and Mandel , 2005 ) and has important roles in neurogenesis and neuronal differentation within the brain ( Hsieh et al . , 2004; Singh et al . , 2008; Westbrook et al . , 2008; Mandel et al . , 2011; Aoki et al . , 2012; Ernsberger , 2012; Kok et al . , 2012; Rodenas-Ruano et al . , 2012 ) . NRSF levels are low in mature hippocampus where ∼600 expressed genes contain NRSEs and are thus potentially regulated by the repressor . Hippocampal NRSF expression increases several-fold following seizures ( Palm et al . , 1998; Garriga-Canut et al . , 2006; McClelland et al . , 2011a ) and following other insults that promote epilepsy ( Calderone et al . , 2003; Noh et al . , 2012; Kaneko et al . , 2014 ) . We found that blocking NRSF function attenuated the epileptic phenotype induced by severe seizures ( McClelland et al . , 2011a ) . However , it is unclear ‘how’ augmented NRSF levels promote selective neuronal phenotypic changes that provoke epilepsy . In this study , we used large-scale transcriptome arrays , qPCR validation , chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) , and gene set enrichment analysis ( GSEA ) to examine the basis of NRSF-dependent gene expression changes during epileptogenesis . Surprisingly , a twofold to threefold increase of NRSF levels , induced by epilepsy-provoking seizures , led to repression of only a subset of potentially regulated genes , and these were rescued by interfering with NRSF function . Unexpectedly , genes found to be regulated by NRSF were characterized by mid-range NRSF-binding probabilities during the naive state . This moderate baseline binding enabled a significant increase of NRSF binding to these genes upon modest increases in NRSF tissue levels . NRSF-regulated hippocampal genes included ion channels , receptors , calcium-related molecules , and other transcription factors that govern neuronal function and plasticity , suggesting that their repression might contribute to the pathogenesis of epilepsy . 
Splitting sensory information into parallel pathways is a common strategy in sensory systems . Yet , how circuits in these parallel pathways are composed to maintain or even enhance the encoding of specific stimulus features is poorly understood . Here , we have investigated the parallel pathways formed by mitral and tufted cells of the olfactory system in mice and characterized the emergence of feature selectivity in these cell types via distinct lateral inhibitory circuits . We find differences in activity-dependent lateral inhibition between mitral and tufted cells that likely reflect newly described differences in the activation of deep and superficial granule cells . Simulations show that these circuit-level differences allow mitral and tufted cells to best discriminate odors in separate concentration ranges , indicating that segregating information about different ranges of stimulus intensity may be an important function of these parallel sensory pathways .  Brain sensory systems use parallel pathways to encode different components of sensory information . Motion and color are segregated in the visual system ( Merigan and Maunsell , 1993; Callaway , 2005 ) , sound location and tonal pattern are processed in parallel pathways in the auditory system ( Lomber and Malhotra , 2008 ) , and pain and itch are conveyed by distinct pathways in the somatosensory system ( Davidson and Giesler , 2010; Ross , 2011 ) . How local circuits support feature selectivity in these parallel streams remains poorly understood . This issue is of particular interest when considering brain areas in which distinct outputs are generated from initially homogeneous sources , such as in the olfactory system . In the mammalian olfactory bulb , firing of olfactory sensory neurons ( OSNs ) excites two classes of projection neurons – mitral cells and tufted cells ( MCs and TCs ) . While long viewed as essentially equivalent neuron classes , emerging evidence shows that MCs and TCs exhibit distinct activity in vivo ( Nagayama et al . , 2004; Fukunaga et al . , 2012; Igarashi et al . , 2012; Adam et al . , 2014; Otazu et al . , 2015 ) , suggesting that MCs and TCs encode complementary aspects of olfactory information . For instance , TCs respond to lower odor concentrations than MCs ( Igarashi et al . , 2012; Kikuta et al . , 2013 ) , suggesting that TCs are involved in processing near-threshold stimuli . Consistent with this notion of parallel pathways , MCs and TCs project their axons to many non-overlapping regions ( Nagayama et al . , 2010; Igarashi et al . , 2012 ) . Recent work has begun to explore the circuit-level origins of these functional differences in odor-evoked activity . For instance , TCs are more intrinsically excitable and receive stronger OSN-mediated excitation than MCs ( Gire et al . , 2012; Burton and Urban , 2014 ) . Whether other elements of the olfactory bulb circuit account for differences in MC vs . TC odor-evoked activity is unknown . Throughout the brain , lateral inhibitory circuits enhance contrast and facilitate discrimination of similar stimuli by decorrelating neural responses ( Hirsch and Gilbert , 1991; Urban , 2002; Gschwend et al . , 2015 ) . In the olfactory bulb , lateral inhibition occurs between pairs of MCs or TCs via reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses with inhibitory granule cells ( GCs ) ( Schoppa and Urban , 2003; Egger and Urban , 2006 ) . Previously , we have shown that lateral inhibition most strongly affects MCs firing at intermediate rates because coincident input is required for the activation of GCs ( Arevian et al . , 2008 ) . This activity-dependent regulation of the strength of lateral inhibition onto MCs decorrelates MC responses to similar input more effectively than subtractive or divisive forms of inhibition ( Arevian et al . , 2008 ) . Lateral inhibition onto TCs is largely unexplored , but the marked differences in MC and TC odor-evoked activity suggest that lateral inhibition onto TCs may operate differently . Here , we show that optogenetic activation of a single , gene-targeted glomerulus elicits larger and more asynchronous lateral inhibitory currents in nearby MCs than in TCs . Moreover , this same photostimulation paradigm inhibits spiking differently in MCs and TCs . While MCs are affected by lateral inhibition at intermediate firing rates ( ~50 Hz ) , TCs are affected when firing at low firing rates ( <25Hz ) . This difference arises , in part , due to differential recruitment of morphologically distinct classes of GCs by MCs and TCs . Finally , we use simulations to explore how these circuit-level differences between MCs and TCs influence odor discrimination . Specifically , the combination of activity-dependent lateral inhibition at both low and intermediate rates enables TCs and MCs to collectively encode odors better than either population alone and supports novel computations that are unlikely to occur with a single neuron type . 
The M2 muscarinic receptor is the prototypic model of allostery in GPCRs , yet the molecular and the supramolecular determinants of such effects are unknown . Monomers and oligomers of the M2 muscarinic receptor therefore have been compared to identify those allosteric properties that are gained in oligomers . Allosteric interactions were monitored by means of a FRET-based sensor of conformation at the allosteric site and in pharmacological assays involving mutants engineered to preclude intramolecular effects . Electrostatic , steric , and conformational determinants of allostery at the atomic level were examined in molecular dynamics simulations . Allosteric effects in monomers were exclusively negative and derived primarily from intramolecular electrostatic repulsion between the allosteric and orthosteric ligands . Allosteric effects in oligomers could be positive or negative , depending upon the allosteric-orthosteric pair , and they arose from interactions within and between the constituent protomers . The complex behavior of oligomers is characteristic of muscarinic receptors in myocardial preparations .  Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors contain an orthosteric site and a topographically distinct allosteric site ( Kruse et al . , 2014; May et al . , 2007 ) . The latter is located at the extracellular surface within a vestibule to the orthosteric site ( Kruse et al . , 2013 ) , and that region shows comparatively low sequence homology among the five muscarinic subtypes ( M1–M5 ) . The allosteric site therefore is more subtype-specific than the orthosteric site , and allosteric ligands are increasingly of interest for their therapeutic potential ( Kenakin2004 ) . Owing to the early demonstration of allosteric interactions in muscarinic systems ( Clark et al . , 1976; Stockton et al . , 1983 ) and the variety of available modulators ( May et al . , 2007 ) , the M2 muscarinic receptor has been a prototype for such effects within the broader family of G protein-coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) . Most studies of the interaction of an allosteric ligand with the allosteric site have been based on the modulation of events at the orthosteric site , typically on receptors in native membranes or detergent-solubilized extracts . Such events may be measured directly , as in the binding of a radiolabeled antagonist ( Christopoulos et al . , 2002 ) , or they may be inferred from functional consequences such as the turnover of [35S]GTPγS ( May et al . , 2007 ) . They also may be positive or negative ( May et al . , 2007 ) , and the data generally have been described in terms of interactions between two binding sites on a monomeric receptor ( Christopoulos et al . , 2002 ) . In the case of the M2 receptor , an atomic-level view of the interaction within a monomer has emerged recently from the crystallography-derived structure of a biliganded receptor ( Kruse et al . , 2013 ) and from inferences based on molecular dynamics simulations ( Dror et al . , 2013 ) . Although such results offer an explanation for negative cooperativity at the atomic level , the mechanism of action of positive modulators such as strychnine remains unclear ( Dror et al . , 2013 ) . That uncertainty relates to questions regarding electrostatic repulsion between highly charged allosteric and orthosteric ligands , steric effects of the former on binding of the latter , and the effect of either ligand on conformational stability at the site of the other ( Dror et al . , 2013 ) . The common view that allosteric interactions occur within monomeric receptors is limited in its ability to rationalize complex effects that are seen in the binding of radioligands . For example , dissociation of the antagonist [3H]quinuclidinylbenzilate ( QNB ) from the M2 receptor is accelerated by gallamine at lower concentrations of the allosteric ligand and slowed at higher concentrations , resulting in a bell-shaped profile ( Ellis et al . , 1989 ) . At equilibrium , the binding of [3H]QNB and the inverse agonist N-[3H]methylscopolamine ( NMS ) can display a biphasic and even a triphasic dependence on the concentration of an allosteric modulator ( Proska et al . , 1994; Shivnaraine et al . , 2012 ) . Such effects imply either that a single molecule of the receptor possesses up to four allosteric sites or that allostery occurs via linked sites within an oligomer ( Proska et al . , 1994; Shivnaraine et al . , 2012 ) . To understand how a multimeric complex might account for allosteric behavior that resists explanation in terms of monomers , we have compared positive and negative allosteric modulators for their effects on oligomers and purified monomers of the M2 muscarinic receptor . Our approach has involved a novel FRET-based sensor of conformation at the allosteric site , mutants that allow only for allosteric modulation between linked protomers , mechanistic modeling , and molecular dynamics simulations . Taken together , the results indicate that intramolecular interactions—i . e . , between two sites on a monomer or on the same protomer of an oligomer—are dominated by electrostatic repulsion and result in low-affinity negative modulation by the allosteric ligand . Intermolecular interactions—i . e . , between two sites on neighboring protomers of an oligomer—result in high-affinity allosteric modulation that may be positive or negative , depending upon the constraints associated with ligand-binding and the nature and extent of conformational changes transmitted between protomers . The results provide a direct demonstration of how allosteric effects characteristic of M2 receptors arise from interactions between the constituent protomers of an oligomer . 
Histone modifications establish the chromatin states that coordinate the DNA damage response . In this study , we show that SETD2 , the enzyme that trimethylates histone H3 lysine 36 ( H3K36me3 ) , is required for ATM activation upon DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) . Moreover , we find that SETD2 is necessary for homologous recombination repair of DSBs by promoting the formation of RAD51 presynaptic filaments . In agreement , SETD2-mutant clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( ccRCC ) cells displayed impaired DNA damage signaling . However , despite the persistence of DNA lesions , SETD2-deficient cells failed to activate p53 , a master guardian of the genome rarely mutated in ccRCC and showed decreased cell survival after DNA damage . We propose that this novel SETD2-dependent role provides a chromatin bookmarking instrument that facilitates signaling and repair of DSBs . In ccRCC , loss of SETD2 may afford an alternative mechanism for the inactivation of the p53-mediated checkpoint without the need for additional genetic mutations in TP53 .  DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are the most catastrophic form of DNA damage and pose great threat to genome stability . The major sensor of DSBs is ataxia telangiectasia mutated ( ATM ) kinase , which is critical for the initial steps of the DNA damage response ( DDR ) . In response to DSBs , ATM phosphorylates and regulates the activity of several substrates involved in DNA repair , such as p53-binding protein 1 ( 53BP1 ) and histone H2AX ( Matsuoka et al . , 2007 ) . To effectively repair a DSB , mammalian cells can choose from two different DDR pathways: nonhomologous end-joining ( NHEJ ) and homologous recombination ( HR ) ( Chapman et al . , 2012 ) . During NHEJ , the broken DNA ends are blocked from 5′ end resection and held in close proximity by the Ku70-Ku80 heterodimer ( Ku ) ( Lieber , 2010 ) . HR is initiated when the 5′ DNA ends are resected by nucleases and helicases , generating two 3′ single-stranded DNA overhangs coated with phosphorylated replication protein A ( RPA ) that drives the formation of a RAD51 filament prior to strand invasion ( Chapman et al . , 2012 ) . In contrast to NHEJ , which promotes direct ligation of the DSB ends in an error-prone manner and is available throughout the cell cycle , HR employs homologous sequences available after DNA replication as templates for error-free DNA repair ( San Filippo et al . , 2008 ) . Both pathways proceed through a cascade of events whereby DNA damage sensors , transducers , and effectors detect and rejoin the broken DNA ends ( Harper and Elledge , 2007 ) . All these events take place within the relatively restricted environment of chromatin , the nucleoprotein complex of histones and DNA assembled into nucleosomes . DNA damage challenges chromatin integrity by eliciting the destabilization and reorganization of its structure ( Soria et al . , 2012 ) . Conversely , a strictly regulated set of post-translational modifications of the histones N-terminal tails regulates the recruitment and activation of DDR factors ( Greenberg , 2011 ) . The most studied response of histones to DNA damage is the phosphorylation of the histone variant H2AX , which serves as a molecular beacon that signals the presence of DNA damage ( Rogakou et al . , 1998 ) . Phosphorylated H2AX ( γH2AX ) arises within minutes after DNA damage and has a key role in the recruitment of multiple DDR factors to the repair centers ( Lukas et al . , 2011 ) . In addition to γH2AX , other histone modifications have been shown to play key roles during the DDR , illustrating the importance of a thorough characterization of the chromatin landscape of a DNA lesion . We have recently shown that the histone methyltransferase SETD2 ( also termed KMT3 or HYPB ) , which is responsible for all H3K36 trimethylation , but not H3K36 mono- or dimethylation ( Edmunds et al . , 2008 ) , acts as a determinant of chromatin integrity by regulating nucleosome dynamics during transcription ( Carvalho et al . , 2013 ) . A role of H3K36me3 in maintaining chromatin integrity was recently disclosed by the finding that the DNA mismatch repair ( MMR ) protein MutSα binds H3K36me3 and that SETD2 is necessary for human DNA MMR , a mechanism that corrects mismatches generated during DNA replication ( Li et al . , 2013 ) . Nevertheless , whether SETD2 impinges on the cell's ability to cope with DNA DSBs is not yet known . In this study , we investigate the role of SETD2 on the cellular response to DNA DSBs . Our findings identify a novel role of this histone methyltransferase in rendering cells competent to repair DSBs . We demonstrate using powerful reporter assays that SETD2 is necessary for the DDR and that depletion of SETD2 impairs ATM activation and leads to delayed recruitment of 53BP1 to sites of DSBs . Our data further reveal that SETD2 is required for the recruitment of RAD51 to resected DNA 5′ ends and SETD2-depleted cells show reduced homology-directed repair of DSBs . SETD2 mutations were recently found in several cancers , such as clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( ccRCC ) ( Dalgliesh et al . , 2010; Duns et al . , 2010; Varela et al . , 2011; Zhang et al . , 2012; Fontebasso et al . , 2013; Joseph et al . , 2014 ) . In ccRCC , the p53-mediated cell cycle checkpoint is frequently inactivated despite the fact that the TP53 tumor suppressor gene is rarely mutated ( Gurova et al . , 2004; Dalgliesh et al . , 2010; Sato et al . , 2013 ) . This puzzling observation suggests that the p53 signaling in ccRCC might be repressed by an alternative mechanism . Herein , we further investigated whether the role of SETD2 in the DDR extends to the regulation of the p53-mediated checkpoint . We show that ccRCC cells carrying inactivating mutations on SETD2 phenocopy the impaired DDR observed in SETD2 RNAi-depleted human cells . Importantly , SETD2 inactivation severed the p53-dependent cell cycle checkpoint despite the persistence of unrepaired DNA lesions in ccRCC cells . We propose that this unprecedented role of SETD2 in the DDR constitutes a novel tumor suppressor mechanism that could explain the high frequency of SETD2 mutations found in several cancers and may provide an alternative mechanism for evasion of the p53-mediated checkpoint in TP53 wt ccRCC cells . 
Missense variants are a major source of human genetic variation . Here we analyze a new mouse missense variant , Rasgrp1Anaef , with an ENU-mutated EF hand in the Rasgrp1 Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor . Rasgrp1Anaef mice exhibit anti-nuclear autoantibodies and gradually accumulate a CD44hi Helios+ PD-1+ CD4+ T cell population that is dependent on B cells . Despite reduced Rasgrp1-Ras-ERK activation in vitro , thymocyte selection in Rasgrp1Anaef is mostly normal in vivo , although CD44 is overexpressed on naïve thymocytes and T cells in a T-cell-autonomous manner . We identify CD44 expression as a sensitive reporter of tonic mTOR-S6 kinase signaling through a novel mouse strain , chino , with a reduction-of-function mutation in Mtor . Elevated tonic mTOR-S6 signaling occurs in Rasgrp1Anaef naïve CD4+ T cells . CD44 expression , CD4+ T cell subset ratios and serum autoantibodies all returned to normal in Rasgrp1AnaefMtorchino double-mutant mice , demonstrating that increased mTOR activity is essential for the Rasgrp1Anaef T cell dysregulation .  Positive and negative selection of thymocytes generates a population of T lymphocytes with a broad spectrum of antigen-specific T cell receptors ( TCR ) ( Starr et al . , 2003; Kortum et al . , 2013 ) . It was recognized early on that the small GTPase Ras plays a role ( Swan et al . , 1995 ) . Three Ras guanine exchange factor ( RasGEF ) families can activate Ras: SOS , RasGRP , and RasGRF ( Stone , 2011 ) . Following TCR engagement , Son of Sevenless ( SOS ) -1 and -2 are recruited to the plasma membrane via a Grb2-phospho-LAT interaction . Simultaneously , the second messenger diacylglycerol ( DAG ) , generated via PLCγ , directly recruits Ras guanine nucleotide releasing protein 1 ( Rasgrp1 ) to the plasma membrane ( Ebinu et al . , 1998 ) . Biochemically , Rasgrp1 and SOS1 synergize to induce high-level Ras activation ( Roose et al . , 2007 ) and Rasgrp1 serves a critical role in priming SOS1 via Rasgrp1-produced RasGTP ( Das et al . , 2009 ) . Consequentially , thymocyte development is severely impaired in Rasgrp1-deficient mice ( Dower et al . , 2000 ) , and not compensated for by SOS RasGEFs . Additionally , there is only minimal compensation for loss of Rasgrp1 coming from Rasgrp3 or Rasgrp4 ( Zhu et al . , 2012; Golec et al . , 2013 ) . Rasgrp1-deficient mice exhibit a strong defect in positive selection and impaired ERK phosphorylation in thymocytes ( Dower et al . , 2000; Priatel et al . , 2002 ) . The importance of the canonical Rasgrp1-RasGTP-RAF-MEK-ERK pathway for developing thymocytes is further underscored by impaired positive selection in ERK-1 and -2 doubly deficient mice ( Fischer et al . , 2005 ) . Although Rasgrp1 plays a critical role in the activation of Ras , relatively little is known about its regulation in T lymphocytes or the in vivo importance of such regulation . In addition to membrane recruitment via its DAG-binding C1 domain ( Ebinu et al . , 1998 ) , Rasgrp1’s GEF activity is enhanced by inducible phosphorylation of threonine 184 ( Roose et al . , 2005; Zheng et al . , 2005 ) . Phospholipase C γ ( PLCγ ) not only generates DAG but also inositol 1 , 4 , 5-trisphosphate ( IP3 ) , which binds to IP3 receptors on the endoplasmic reticulum to activate the calcium pathway ( Feske , 2007 ) . Interestingly , Rasgrp1 also contains a pair of EF hands , motifs that often bind calcium , which induces conformational changes ( Gifford et al . , 2007 ) . Rasgrp1 has been reported to bind calcium in vitro ( Ebinu et al . , 1998 ) . In chicken DT40 B cells , the first EF1 domain enables the recruitment function of a C-terminal PT domain ( plasma membrane targeting domain ) that cooperates with the C1 domain to recruit Rasgrp1 to the membrane ( Tazmini et al . , 2009 ) . Notably , the PT domain contribution is substantial in BCR-stimulated B cell lines , very modest in T cell lines , and negligible in fibroblasts ( Beaulieu et al . , 2007 ) . Genetic deletion of Rasgrp1’s 200 C-terminal amino acids reduces the formation of mature thymocytes in Rasgrp1d/d mice ( Fuller et al . , 2012 ) . Our recent structural studies revealed that Rasgrp1’s C terminus contains a coiled-coil dimerization domain ( Iwig et al . , 2013 ) . Rasgrp1 dimerization plays an important role in controlling Rasgrp1’s activity; the second EF hand of one Rasgrp1 molecule packs against the C1 domain of a second molecule in a manner that is incompatible with DAG-binding whereas calcium binding to the first EF hand is predicted to unlock this autoinhibitory dimer interface ( Iwig et al . , 2013 ) . Lastly , it is unknown if Rasgrp1 may signal to pathways other than the canonical Rasgrp1-Ras-RAF-MEK-ERK cascade , although a link between Rasgrp1 and mTOR ( mechanistic target of rapamycin ) signaling has been proposed ( Gorentla et al . , 2011 ) . Older Rasgrp1-deficient ( Coughlin et al . , 2005 ) and Rasgrp1d/d mice ( Fuller et al . , 2012 ) develop splenomegaly and autoantibodies . In these mouse models , the complete deletion or truncation of Rasgrp1 greatly decreases T cell development in the thymus ( Dower et al . , 2000; Fuller et al . , 2012 ) , resulting in peripheral T cell lymphopenia followed by accumulation of CD44hi CD62Llo CD4+ T cells ( Priatel et al . , 2007; Fuller et al . , 2012 ) . Autoimmune phenotypes caused by these mutations have been attributed to compromised T cell selection in the thymus and compensatory expansion of peripheral T cells in response to lymphopenia and/or chronic infection . Hypomorphic missense alleles of the signaling molecules ZAP-70 and LAT also impair T cell development in the thymus and culminate in severe peripheral immune dysregulation . For example , an SKG allele of the kinase ZAP-70 has reduced binding-affinity for phospho-TCRζ and leads to autoimmune arthritis in mice ( Sakaguchi et al . , 2003 ) . Point mutations in ZAP70’s catalytic domain that reduce kinase activity to intermediate levels diminish thymic deletion and Foxp3+ Treg differentiation but preserve peripheral T cell activation , resulting in autoantibody formation and hyper-IgE production ( Siggs et al . , 2007 ) . Mutation of a single tyrosine in LAT ( LATY136F ) results in hyperproliferative lymphocytes of a TH2 type ( Aguado et al . , 2002; Sommers et al . , 2002 ) . In each of these cases , peripheral T cell dysregulation is tied to , and potentially explained by , profound deficits in thymic T cell formation . Single nucleotide variants that cause amino acid substitutions ( missense variants; SNVs ) or modify the level of gene expression rather than knocking out protein expression are a major form of human genetic variation: most people inherit ∼12 , 000 missense gene variants ( The 1000 Genomes Project Consortium , 2010 ) . Given the emerging examples of missense alleles having very different immunological consequences from null alleles , mouse models that analyze the consequences of missense variants in key immune genes are needed to understand the pathogenesis of complex human immune diseases . Common tag SNVs near RASGRP1 are associated with susceptibility to autoimmune ( Type 1 ) diabetes and to thyroid autoantibodies in Graves’ disease ( Qu et al . , 2009; Plagnol et al . , 2011 ) , while 13 unstudied RASGRP1 missense SNVs are currently listed in public databases . A fruitful approach for identifying missense gene variants that dysregulate immune function has been through N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea ( ENU ) mutagenesis ( Nelms and Goodnow , 2001 ) . Here we describe the analysis of a novel ENU-induced missense variant , Rasgrp1Anaef that reveals an important in vivo regulatory function of Rasgrp1’s EF hands . Rasgrp1Anaef is distinct from previously described autoimmune mutations in Rasgrp1 , Zap70 or Lat , as Rasgrp1Anaef has no detectable effect on thymocyte development in mice with normal TCR repertoires , but results in peripheral accumulation of a distinct population of Helios+ PD-1+ T-helper cells and production of anti-nuclear autoantibodies . In contrast to Rasgrp1 deletion , the Rasgrp1Anaef missense variant increases tonic mTOR signaling in naïve CD4+ T cells . Genetic reduction of mTOR function in Rasgrp1Anaef mice normalizes CD44 expression on naïve CD4+ T cells and abolishes excessive accumulation of effector T cells and autoantibodies , demonstrating a central role for increased mTOR activity in driving immune dysregulation in Rasgrp1Anaef mice . 
Mutations in members of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling family are common events in cancer , but the mechanisms whereby disruption of SWI/SNF components alters tumorigenesis remain poorly understood . To model the effect of loss of function mutations in the SWI/SNF subunit Arid1a in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) initiation , we directed shRNA triggered , inducible and reversible suppression of Arid1a to the mouse pancreas in the setting of oncogenic KrasG12D . Arid1a cooperates with Kras in the adult pancreas as postnatal silencing of Arid1a following sustained KrasG12D expression induces rapid and irreversible reprogramming of acinar cells into mucinous PDAC precursor lesions . In contrast , Arid1a silencing during embryogenesis , concurrent with KrasG12D activation , leads to retention of acinar cell fate . Together , our results demonstrate Arid1a as a critical modulator of Kras-dependent changes in acinar cell identity , and underscore an unanticipated influence of timing and genetic context on the effects of SWI/SNF complex alterations in epithelial tumorigenesis .  Aberrant chromatin regulation is a hallmark of cancer ( Flavahan et al . , 2017 ) . Numerous studies have revealed an abnormal chromatin state in tumor cells in comparison with their tissue of origin , and mutations in genes encoding chromatin readers , writers and remodelers have been detected across the spectrum of human cancers ( Feinberg et al . , 2016 ) . For example , subunits of the SWI/SNF ATP-dependent chromatin-remodeling complex show frequent mutation in many solid tumors ( Bailey et al . , 2016; Waddell et al . , 2015; Witkiewicz et al . , 2015 ) , but understanding of the underlying biology and molecular mechanisms as to how these mutations influence cancer related processes remains limited . SWI/SNF complexes regulate chromatin accessibility and thus gene expression by re-positioning nucleosomes and interacting with available transcription factors ( TFs ) at enhancer regions ( Kelso et al . , 2017; Mathur et al . , 2017; Vierbuchen et al . , 2017; Wang et al . , 2017 ) . While the predominance of apparently inactivating mutations in various SWI/SNF components implies a tumor-suppressive function for the complex , gene perturbation studies in mice have identified both pro- and anti-tumorigenic roles for individual SWI/SNF subunits . For instance , mice lacking Arid1a , the DNA-binding SWI/SNF subunit , in the colon develop adenocarcinomas ( Mathur et al . , 2017 ) . However , opposing and stage dependent roles have been described within the same tissue , as Arid1a deletion can both impair and promote the initiation of liver tumorigenesis ( Fang et al . , 2015; Sun et al . , 2017 ) and accelerates progression and metastasis in established disease ( Sun et al . , 2017 ) . Another subunit , Smarca4 , displays the opposite pattern in pancreatic tumorigenesis , where its deletion accelerates tumor onset but slows progression ( Roy et al . , 2015; von Figura et al . , 2014a ) . Thus , the role of various SWI/SNF complex components in tumor initiation and progression can be context dependent . As the SWI/SNF complex dictates chromatin accessibility by available TFs , such context dependencies might broadly relate to development or pathological cell state . Indeed , in drosophila and mammalian systems , SWI/SNF complex dependent regulation of gene expression controls cell identity and differentiation in developmental as well as regenerative contexts ( Sun et al . , 2016; Takada et al . , 2016; Vieira et al . , 2017 ) . How loss of SWI/SNF subunit function contributes to changes in cell plasticity in concert with oncogenes that drive cancer development is poorly understood . Furthermore , it is not known whether the disruption of SWI/SNF activity that accompanies tumorigenesis is needed to sustain neoplastic disease . We set out to develop an in vivo model to address the role of the SWI/SNF component ARID1A in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) , a setting in which mutations in ARID1A or other SWI/SNF components occur in up to 25% of cancer patients ( Shain et al . , 2012 ) . PDAC is nearly invariably initiated by activating mutations in the KRAS oncogene ( Bailey et al . , 2016 ) , while additional mutations in tumor suppressor genes are accumulated in the course of PDAC progression ( Hezel et al . , 2006 ) . PDAC can arise from mucinous precursor lesions , including the most common , pancreatic intra-epithelial neoplasia ( PanIN ) , as well as intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms ( IPMN ) and Mucinous Cystic Neoplasms ( MCN ) , with activating KRAS mutations frequently found in these early neoplastic stages ( Hosoda et al . , 2017; Lee et al . , 2016 ) . Tissue specific expression of mutant Kras in the developing and adult mouse pancreas recapitulates both the range of preneoplastic lesions and their progression to malignant PDAC ( Hingorani et al . , 2005; Izeradjene et al . , 2007; Sano et al . , 2014; Siveke et al . , 2007 ) . Lineage tracing studies indicate mutant Kras can drive PanIN development from acinar cells that undergo a process of persistent trans-differentiation termed acinar to ductal metaplasia ( ADM ) ( Kopp et al . , 2012 ) . In this process , acinar cells lose their pyramidal morphology , downregulate expression of digestive enzymes and TFs characteristic of acinar cells , and turn on an embryonic progenitor-like transcriptional program that includes expression of ductal markers and development of glandular morphology ( Storz , 2017 ) . Deletion of key transcriptional regulators of acinar cell identity and regeneration such as Ptf1a , Nr5a2 and Pdx1 , when combined with oncogenic Kras , accelerates ADM and PanIN development ( Flandez et al . , 2014b; Krah et al . , 2015; Roy et al . , 2016; Shi et al . , 2009; von Figura et al . , 2014b ) . Thus , maintenance of acinar cell identity and regenerative homeostasis provides an important barrier to tumorigenesis in PDAC . Current mouse models of PDAC have limitations . For example , cancer sequencing studies imply that mutations can occur in biologically-relevant orders during tumorigenesis , yet traditional Cre/loxp-based mouse models necessarily recombine all conditional alleles simultaneously . Additionally , traditional gene ‘knockout’ models do not allow for the restoration of the endogenous protein , making it difficult to address questions of phenotypic reversibility and the requirement for sustained gene loss in disease maintenance . Addressing these issues , we implement a powerful mouse-modeling platform that enables inducible and reversible disruption of gene function to show that Arid1a depletion can modulate the early stages of pancreatic neoplasia in a context-specific manner that depends on the timing of Arid1a inactivation and the presence of oncogenic Kras . Remarkably , these cell state transitions facilitated by Arid1a perturbation involve reprogramming events that , in contrast to tissue regenerative responses , are irreversible . 
Many species use social networks to buffer the effects of stress . The mere absence of a social network , however , may also be stressful . We examined neuroendocrine , PVN CRH neurons and report that social isolation alters the intrinsic properties of these cells in sexually dimorphic fashion . Specifically , isolating preadolescent female mice from littermates for <24 hr increased first spike latency ( FSL ) and decreased excitability of CRH neurons . These changes were not evident in age-matched males . By contrast , subjecting either males ( isolated or grouped ) or group housed females to acute physical stress ( swim ) , increased FSL . The increase in FSL following either social isolation or acute physical stress was blocked by the glucocorticoid synthesis inhibitor , metyrapone and mimicked by exogenous corticosterone . The increase in FSL results in a decrease in the excitability of CRH neurons . Our observations demonstrate that social isolation , but not acute physical stress has sex-specific effects on PVN CRH neurons .  Survival threats trigger a repertoire of behavioral and endocrine adjustments ( Cannon , 1932 ) . The endocrine changes rely on the immediate engagement of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal ( HPA ) axis which is controlled by corticotropin releasing hormone ( CRH ) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus ( PVN ) . Although it is essential for survival , the dysregulation of the stress response is implicated in the emergence of numerous neuropsychiatric diseases ( Tost et al . , 2015 ) . Interestingly , many of these psychopathologies show sex-specific differences which may be a consequence of sexual dimorphism of the neuroendocrine response to stress ( Bale and Epperson , 2015 ) . This sexual dimorphism may result in different response sensitivity to the same stressor and/or differences in which stimuli males and females perceive as stressful . Human studies demonstrating that young girls exhibit greater corticosteroid ( CORT ) stress reactivity to social stress tests than boys ( Gunnar et al . , 2009; de Veld et al . , 2012 ) suggest , for example , that young females are more responsive to changes in social situations . Consistent with this idea , are demonstrations that , in comparison to males , females take greater advantage of social support and group dynamics to manage stress ( Taylor et al . , 2000 ) . Here we hypothesized that disrupting the social network would elicit neurobiological changes preferentially in female mice . 
Hemoglobin ( Hb ) represents a model protein to study molecular adaptation in vertebrates . Although both affinity and cooperativity of oxygen binding to Hb affect tissue oxygen delivery , only the former was thought to determine molecular adaptations of Hb . Here , we suggest that Hb affinity and cooperativity reflect evolutionary and physiological adaptions that optimized tissue oxygen delivery . To test this hypothesis , we derived the relationship between the Hill coefficient and the relative affinity and conformational changes parameters of the Monod-Wymann-Changeux allosteric model and graphed the ‘biophysical Hill landscape’ describing this relation . We found that mammalian Hb cooperativity values all reside on a ridge of maximum cooperativity along this landscape that allows for both gross- and fine-tuning of tissue oxygen unloading to meet the distinct metabolic requirements of mammalian tissues for oxygen . Our findings reveal the mechanism underlying body size-related adaptation of mammalian Hb . The generality and implications of our findings are discussed .  Two major obstacles hamper understanding the evolutionary origins of properties seen in modern-day proteins . One stems from the fact that mutation and selection are separated by several levels of biological organization such that it is difficult to elucidate the complex relationships between protein sequence and organismal/population fitness . Second , even in those cases where the molecular properties of a protein ( e . g . affinity or cooperativity ) have adaptive value with respect to organismal fitness , we often lack an understanding of the molecular mechanism underlying changes in the values of these properties . Given these challenges , we currently understand the mechanisms underlying adaptive behavior for only a very limited number of proteins ( e . g . Mello and Tu , 2005; Keymer et al . , 2006; Swem et al . , 2008; Storz et al . , 2009 ) . Hb represents an excellent model protein to study molecular adaptation in vertebrates ( Perutz , 1983; Poyart et al . , 1992; Hourdez and Weber , 2005; Storz and Moriyama , 2008 ) . Hb is a tetrameric allosteric protein responsible for tissue oxygen delivery in a manner controlled by the midpoint and slope of its oxygen saturation curve . These macroscopic parameters reflect the effective affinity ( p50 ) and cooperativity ( nH ) of oxygen binding by Hb , respectively and are traditionally evaluated using the Hill equation , derived assuming an all-or-none mode of binding ( Hill , 1910 ) . Over the years , many studies have indicated that Hb oxygen affinity ( p50 ) is an adaptive trait , that is its value has been tuned during evolution so as to tailor tissue oxygen delivery to the particular metabolic requirements of vertebrates due to variations in body size , lifestyle and/or environmental conditions . For example , vertebrates native to mountain habitats where low ambient oxygen pressures prevail usually possess Hb that exhibits higher affinity for oxygen than does the Hb of lowland dwellers ( Lenfant , 1973; Bunn , 1980; Weber , 2007; Storz and Moriyama , 2008; Storz , 2016 ) . Likewise , Hb in small-sized animals that display high metabolic rates presents lower affinity for oxygen than does the same protein in large-sized animals , again reflecting the adaptive adjustment of tissue oxygen unloading by Hb ( Schmidt-Neilsen and Larimer , 1958; Schmidt-Nielsen , 1970 ) . Accordingly , early respiratory system physiologists assigned great significance to the p50 parameter , terming it ‘oxygen unloading tension’ , and proposed that Hb function could be explained in terms of adaptive evolution of this value ( Schmidt-Neilsen and Larimer , 1958; Schmidt-Nielsen , 1970 ) . At the same time , such studies ignored the adaptive potential of cooperativity ( nH ) with respect to Hb function . This is surprising , given that nH also affects Hb tissue oxygen delivery . Moreover , mechanisms underlying changes in p50 , such as changes in oxygen affinity of the oxy- or deoxy-states of Hb , changes in the ratio between these states or changes in their sensitivity to allosteric effectors , are all also expected to affect nH . Indeed , the finding by Milo et al . ( 2007 ) that mammalian Hbs exhibit variations in the Hill cooperativity value hints at the adaptive potential of the nH trait . The need to also consider nH in addressing adaptation of Hb function becomes evident when we examine the implications of accepting the notion that molecular adaptation of Hb function in vertebrates relies primarily on its p50 affinity property . Given the inherent tradeoff between arterial O2 loading and peripheral O2 unloading , it is not clear whether improved tissue oxygen delivery is achieved by increased oxygen affinity to improve Hb loading or by decreased affinity to favor unloading ( Storz , 2016 ) . Either very high or very low oxygen affinity would result in a low fraction of tissue oxygen delivery unless cooperativity ( nH ) between Hb subunits is introduced as a means to switch between low- and high-affinity Hb states . It would thus seem that the values of both p50 and nH of Hb should reflect physiological optimization of the tradeoff between O2 loading in the lungs and O2 unloading in tissues , so as to optimize tissue oxygen delivery . Although this is a seemingly obvious claim , it has yet to be tested experimentally . Here , we tested whether the values of both p50 and nH of Hb are indeed optimized in the case of body size-related adaptation of mammalian Hb , relying on extensive evolutionary and physiological oxygen saturation datasets available for mammalian Hb proteins . The former comprises a set of oxygen binding curves of homologous Hb proteins from different mammalian species , all measured under similar physiological conditions ( Milo et al . , 2007; Rapp and Yifrach , 2017 ) . The latter comprises a set of binding curves of human Hb measured under a variety of different physiological conditions , that is , in the presence of different concentrations of H+ , CO2 and organophosphate , all inhibitory allosteric ligands of Hb ( Rapp and Yifrach , 2017 ) . For all data sets curves , reliable estimates for p50 and nH Hill parameters and for the elementary relative affinity ( c ) and conformational changes ( L ) parameters of the MWC concerted allosteric model ( Monod et al . , 1965; Rubin and Changeux , 1966 ) are available . By deriving the explicit mathematical dependence of both p50 and nH on the MWC parameters of a tetrameric protein , we were able to draw the theoretical ‘biophysical Hill cooperativity landscape’ at half-saturation that graphically describes how nH varies with changes in the values of the MWC parameters . The mapping of experimentally derived Hill and MWC parameters of all evolutionary and physiological dataset curves on this landscape provided insight into the mechanism underlying the adaptive behavior of p50 and nH with respect to tissue oxygen delivery by mammalian Hb and their relation to organism fitness . The principles underlying the ‘biophysical Hill landscape’-mapping strategy are general and offer mechanistic-level understanding of how physiological and evolutionary variations operate to shape the molecular property of a protein . 
Malaria infection starts with injection of Plasmodium sporozoites by an Anopheles mosquito into the skin of the mammalian host . How sporozoites locate and enter a blood vessel is a critical , but poorly understood process . In this study , we examine sporozoite motility and their interaction with dermal blood vessels , using intravital microscopy in mice . Our data suggest that sporozoites exhibit two types of motility: in regions far from blood vessels , they exhibit ‘avascular motility’ , defined by high speed and less confinement , while in the vicinity of blood vessels their motility is more constrained . We find that curvature of sporozoite tracks engaging with vasculature optimizes contact with dermal capillaries . Imaging of sporozoites with mutations in key adhesive proteins highlight the importance of the sporozoite's gliding speed and its ability to modulate adhesive properties for successful exit from the inoculation site .  Through the bite of an infected mosquito , the mammalian host is infected with Plasmodium sporozoites , which migrate through the skin to invade blood vessels . Sporozoites are then carried by the blood flow to the liver , where they initiate a liver- and subsequently a blood-stage infection ( Sinnis and Zavala , 2012 ) . Sporozoite motility , a substrate-dependent gliding motility , is essential for the exit from the dermis , and as a result for sporozoite infectivity ( Vanderberg and Frevert , 2004; Amino et al . , 2006; Hellmann et al . , 2011; Ejigiri et al . , 2012 ) . In comparison to fast migrating mammalian cells , such as lymphocytes , which crawl at approximately 0 . 1 μm/s , sporozoites move at 1–3 μm/s ( Amino et al . , 2006; Hellmann et al . , 2011; Ejigiri et al . , 2012 ) . Given the energy cost of such a remarkable speed , fast migration is likely key for sporozoite infectivity . Gliding speed is affected by the turnover of focal adhesion sites ( Münter et al . , 2009 ) , as well as by environmental obstacles present in the dermis ( Hellmann et al . , 2011 ) . While on two-dimensional substrates in vitro , salivary gland sporozoites glide in a circular pattern . In the dermis , this motion is transformed to a complex non-linear path ( Amino et al . , 2006; Hellmann et al . , 2011 ) . Recent work has shown that both the circumsporozoite protein ( CSP ) and the thrombospondin-related anonymous protein ( TRAP ) have important roles for the exit of Plasmodium berghei sporozoites from the dermal inoculation site ( Coppi et al . , 2011; Ejigiri et al . , 2012 ) . Proteolytic processing of CSP leads to removal of the N-terminus and exposure of a cell-adhesion domain ( Coppi et al . , 2011 ) . Sporozoites expressing a mutant CSP which lacks the N-terminus ( CSΔN ) , thus mimicking the proteolytically processed form of CSP , display normal infectivity when inoculated intravenously ( Coppi et al . , 2011 ) . However , when CSΔN sporozoites are injected intradermally , parasites are undetectable in the liver and exhibit a significant delay in the prepatency period , indicating that CSΔN parasites are impaired in their ability to exit the dermis ( Coppi et al . , 2011 ) . CSΔN sporozoites show only a small reduction in gliding motility in vitro ( Coppi et al . , 2011 ) , suggesting that these mutant sporozoites have additional impairments in vivo . Mutant TRAP-VAL parasites carry mutations in the putative rhomboid-cleavage site of TRAP and similar to the CSΔN mutant , they have a more dramatic reduction in their infectivity after intradermal inoculation , compared to intravenous inoculation ( Ejigiri et al . , 2012 ) . Unlike the CSΔN sporozoites , TRAP-VAL sporozoites display a significantly reduced gliding speed in vitro , moving at approximately 0 . 5 μm/s in vitro ( Ejigiri et al . , 2012 ) . Here , we present a quantitative in vivo study on the motility of Plasmodium sporozoites over time , and by visualization of dermal vascular endothelia we describe their interaction with dermal blood vessels . We characterize changes in sporozoite motility over the first 2 hr after intradermal inoculation and identify an altered type of sporozoite motility in proximity of blood vessels . We rendered the CSΔN and TRAP-VAL sporozoites fluorescent in order to study the function of these surface proteins in dermal parasite motility and blood vessel recognition and found that CSΔN sporozoites spend more time engaging with blood vessels , yet are unable to enter the blood circulation . Imaging TRAP-VAL sporozoites , we find that their slow gliding speed significantly decreases the volume of tissue explored , which likely results in reduced ability to encounter blood vessels . 
Cells are organized by functional modules , which typically contain components whose removal severely compromises the module's function . Despite their importance , these components are not absolutely conserved between parts of the tree of life , suggesting that cells can evolve to perform the same biological functions with different proteins . We evolved Saccharomyces cerevisiae for 1000 generations without the important polarity gene BEM1 . Initially the bem1∆ lineages rapidly increase in fitness and then slowly reach >90% of the fitness of their BEM1 ancestors at the end of the evolution . Sequencing their genomes and monitoring polarization reveals a common evolutionary trajectory , with a fixed sequence of adaptive mutations , each improving cell polarization by inactivating proteins . Our results show that organisms can be evolutionarily robust to physiologically destructive perturbations and suggest that recovery by gene inactivation can lead to rapid divergence in the parts list for cell biologically important functions .  Advances in cell biology , genetics , and systems biology have led to substantial understanding of how cells perform complex tasks precisely . In cell polarization and movement , a biochemical and biophysical picture is emerging of how those complex functional modules self-organize to accomplish their functions ( Howard et al . , 2011; Goehring and Grill , 2013 ) . Surprisingly , components that are essential for a module in well-studied model organisms can be absent in evolutionarily distant organisms ( Bergmiller et al . , 2012 ) , even though the modules must perform the same tasks . This observation suggests that complex modules reorganize during evolution , either to accommodate changing requirements or to respond to the chance loss of components during population bottlenecks , when selection against deleterious mutations is greatly diminished . One approach to understanding the evolution of functional modules is to compare them between different species ( Carvalho-Santos et al . , 2011; Azimzadeh et al . , 2012; Vleugel et al . , 2012 ) . In closely related , inter-fertile species , genetic analysis can reveal the mutations that account for functional differences , but not their temporal order , and even this level of detail cannot be achieved in more distantly related species . Experimental microbial evolution circumvents these problems: sequencing and genetic analysis identifies the mutations responsible for the selected phenotype and storing and analyzing intermediate steps reveals the order in which mutations occurred ( Lenski and Travisano , 1994; Lang et al . , 2013 ) . In principle , these tools should lead to mechanistic understanding of evolutionary trajectories , but selections for faster growth or novel functions typically produce adaptive mutations in multiple functional modules ( Kvitek and Sherlock , 2013 ) , whose relationship to each other is hard to explain . Are there multiple solutions to the selection , resulting in independent additive solutions in different cellular modules ( Khan et al . , 2011; Koschwanez et al . , 2013 ) , or are those mutations ( and the modules they lay in ) coupled in an unknown way ( Wildenberg and Murray , 2014 ) ? We focused selective pressure by allowing populations to evolve after deleting an important gene in a well-described module . This approach differs from traditional suppressor screens , which isolate single compensatory mutations , by selecting for combinations of mutations , which together significantly increase fitness . The module we perturbed was polarization in budding yeast ( Smith et al . , 2002; Slaughter et al . , 2009a; Howell et al . , 2012; Freisinger et al . , 2013; Gong et al . , 2013; Klunder et al . , 2013; Wu and Lew , 2013; Kuo et al . , 2014 ) . Polarization involves selection of an axis of polarity , followed by the asymmetric organization of cytoskeletal elements and membranous organelles and cell wall growth along this axis . Yeast cells polarize and bud by localizing and activating the small GTPase , Cdc42 , at a single site ( Slaughter et al . , 2009b; Wu and Lew , 2013 ) . In haploid cells , polarization is directed by a historical mark deposited in the previous cell cycle , but even when the mark is absent , yeast cells still polarize efficiently , albeit at a random location ( Chant and Herskowitz , 1991 ) . Under these conditions , symmetry breaking depends on at least two pathways: ( 1 ) an actin-based mechanism based on the positive feedback between actin-mediated delivery of Cdc42 to the plasma membrane and actin polymerization stimulated by membrane-bound Cdc42 ( Wedlich-Soldner et al . , 2003; Marco et al . , 2007; Freisinger et al . , 2013; Slaughter et al . , 2013 ) , and ( 2 ) an actin independent , Turing type mechanism that depends on interactions amongst proteins that regulate the activity and localization of Cdc42 ( Howell et al . , 2012; Freisinger et al . , 2013; Smith et al . , 2013 ) ( Figure 1A ) . We strongly perturbed yeast polarization by removing Bem1 , a regulator of Cdc42 , which recruits the guanine exchange factor ( GEF ) Cdc24 as well as Cdc42 to the membrane where Cdc24 activates membrane-bound Cdc42 . We decided to delete Bem1 because previous research suggests that this protein is a relatively young component in polarity establishment that had a different role in ancestral fungi ( Semighini and Harris , 2008 ) . Deleting this component of polarity could thus reveal other alternative , more evolutionarily ancient polarization modules . 10 . 7554/eLife . 09638 . 003Figure 1 . BEM1 is an important polarity gene . ( A ) Cartoon showing the components of the machinery for cell polarization relevant for this work . ( B ) Images of two plates where 105 wild-type ( left ) vs 105 bem1∆ spores were plated . ( C ) Differential interference contrast ( DIC ) images of bem1∆ and wild-type cells that grew from a single spore , showing that bem1∆ cells do not polarize effectively and therefore grow very large compared to wild type . Scale bar indicates 20 µm . ( D ) Histograms of the time between cytokinesis and bud formation for bem1∆ and wild-type cells that were born after germination from spores . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09638 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 09638 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . DIC microscopy image of a microcolony that grew from a single bem1∆ cell that was taken from the colony that was used to start the experimental evolution experiment of the A-lines . Scale bar indicates 20 µm . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09638 . 004 Deleting Bem1 led to profound defects in cell polarization and proliferation , but cells recovered to nearly wild-type growth rates over 1000 generations . Genetic analysis revealed that this recovery followed a reproducible trajectory in which the same genes , which regulate polarization , were inactivated in the same order . Systematic analysis of the interactions between the mutated genes revealed epistatic interactions that explained the evolutionary trajectory that gradually improved cell polarization . We discuss the role of loss-of-function mutations in the evolution of populations outside the laboratory . 
Neurobiologists have studied decisions by offering successive , independent choices between goods or gambles . However , choices often have lasting consequences , as when investing in a house or choosing a partner . Here , humans decided whether to commit ( by acceptance or rejection ) to prospects that provided sustained financial return . BOLD signals in the rostral medial prefrontal cortex ( rmPFC ) encoded stimulus value only when acceptance or rejection was deferred into the future , suggesting a role in integrating value signals over time . By contrast , the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex ( dACC ) encoded stimulus value only when participants rejected ( or deferred accepting ) a prospect . dACC BOLD signals reflected two decision biases–to defer commitments to later , and to weight potential losses more heavily than gains–that ( paradoxically ) maximised reward in this task . These findings offer fresh insights into the pressures that shape economic decisions , and the computation of value in the medial prefrontal cortex .  Animals make choices that enhance their chances of positive reinforcement ( Thorndike , 1898 ) . Laboratory-based tasks have investigated reward-guided decision-making by requiring successive , independent choices to be made in pursuit of a primary reinforcer ( e . g . , juice ) or a flexible resource ( e . g . , money ) . For example , on each trial participants might be asked to choose between one of two abstract symbols to obtain a variable monetary reward ( Daw et al . , 2006 ) , or decide which of two snacks they would like to eat upon completion of the experiment ( Lim et al . , 2011 ) . In these tasks , decisions are often characterised by stereotyped biases that hinder outcome maximisation , including a tendency to weight losses more heavily than gains ( loss aversion ) ( Tversky and Kahneman , 1991; Tom et al . , 2007 ) , or an undue preference for an already endowed or ‘default’ option ( status quo bias ) ( Kahneman et al . , 1991; De Martino et al . , 2009; Fleming et al . , 2010 ) . In conjunction with single-cell recordings ( Tremblay and Schultz , 1999; Shidara and Richmond , 2002; Padoa-Schioppa and Assad , 2006; Hayden et al . , 2011; Kennerley et al . , 2011 ) or functional neuroimaging ( Plassmann et al . , 2007; Basten et al . , 2010; Hare et al . , 2011; Lim et al . , 2011; Hunt et al . , 2012; Kolling et al . , 2012; Boorman et al . , 2013 ) , studies have revealed that two interconnected medial cortical regions , the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex ( dACC ) and the rostromedial prefrontal cortex ( rmPFC ) , play a pivotal role in reward-guided decision-making , although the relative contribution of these regions remains a focus of lively debate ( Kable and Glimcher , 2009; Rangel and Hare , 2010; Rushworth et al . , 2011 ) . Tasks involving successive , independent decisions ( e . g . , standard ‘bandit’ tasks ) allow researchers to simulate key behaviours such as foraging , where an animal makes repeated choices about which food item to consume ( Rushworth et al . , 2011 ) . These decisions depend on the momentary utility of a stimulus , that is , the reward that would accrue if that stimulus were to be consumed or disbursed all at once , whether immediately or ( as in inter-temporal choice ) after a delay ( Kable and Glimcher , 2007 ) . However , many ( perhaps most ) economic behaviours are not well captured by this paradigm , because rather than involving successive , independent choices , they require investment—that is , long-term commitment to a prospect in anticipation of sustained economic return , and with penalties incurred by any future change of mind . For example , the benefits of choosing the right employment could persist for many years into the future , whereas a poor decision about which mobile telephone to purchase might cause frustration for several months . Other decisions reverse a previous commitment , for example when deciding to sell stock options or to end a failing relationship . In these types of decision , which we refer to as economic ‘commitments’ , prospects are irreversibly ‘ruled in’ ( i . e . , by acceptance ) or ‘ruled out’ ( i . e . , by rejection ) of a portfolio of assets that yield sustained positive or negative return to the individual . Unlike the choices made in most current lab-based approaches , economic commitments are not independent: a decision made at a time t continues to contribute to economic return at a later time t + 1 , and may influence other choices made at that time . The aim of the current work was to understand the computational mechanisms by which economic commitments are made in humans , and to investigate their neural implementation in the reward circuitry of the medial prefrontal cortex . Commitments often follow a period of deliberation , during which items are considered but final acceptance or rejection is deferred to a later moment ( Shafir and Tversky , 1992; Shafir , 1993 ) . For example , a university student might decide to opt for a course after attending an interesting first seminar ( acceptance , or ‘ruling in’ ) ; or she might decide to wait until after a second seminar to make a commitment . Equally , the student might decide to drop a course after attending a particularly boring lecture ( rejection , or ‘ruling out’ ) ; or she might give the lecturer another chance , and defer the decision until later . In other words , many behaviours involve choosing between either acceptance and deferral , or rejection and deferral . The notion that deliberation incurs a dual demand associated with selection ( what to decide , either option A or B ) and commitment ( when to decide , either now or later ) has received detailed consideration in psychophysical studies , in particular via the modelling of reaction time distributions ( Bogacz et al . , 2006 ) . However , studies requiring fast category judgments make it hard to disentangle the mechanisms determining what to decide and when to commit . In description-based judgment tasks , framing a choice as ‘accept’ or ‘reject’ provokes well-described biases in choice behavior ( Tversky and Kahneman , 1981 ) . However , the issue of how commitments to prospects are made by acceptance or rejection has received less attention in the domain of neuroeconomics ( Furl and Averbeck , 2011; Gluth et al . , 2012 ) . During choices among two or more options with uncertain value , activity in anterior rmPFC has been shown to signal the relative advantage of the chosen or attended option over its competitors ( Padoa-Schioppa and Assad , 2006; Lim et al . , 2011; Hunt et al . , 2012 ) , whereas the dACC often shows the reverse pattern . This may be because dACC preferentially responds to decision entropy or conflict ( Botvinick et al . , 1999 ) , or alternatively because it encodes the value of disengaging from a current or default state to explore a novel course of action ( Hayden et al . , 2011; Kolling et al . , 2012 ) . In either case however , it remains unknown whether this value difference coding depends on whether stimuli are accepted or rejected , because when deciding between two prospects , an option may be chosen either because it was preferred , or because the alternative was dispreferred . Moreover , it remains unknown how value encoding in the medial prefrontal cortex depends on whether decisions involve economic commitment or not . Here , thus , we investigated the neural mechanisms that accompany commitment ( acceptance , rejection ) , and deferral ( failure to accept or reject ) during economic choice , using a multi-alternative choice task in which decisions had financial ramifications that persisted over prolonged episodes , and could not be reversed . In half of the blocks , participants had to choose between accepting ( inclusion by commitment ) and deferring acceptance of a prospect ( exclusion by deferral ) . In the other half of the blocks , participants chose between rejecting ( exclusion by commitment ) and deferring rejection ( inclusion by deferral ) . Therefore , preference for a bandit would be implied by commitment in rule-in and deferral in rule-out . Our task , thus , allowed us to probe value encoding in the prefrontal cortex as a function of whether a stimulus was preferred ( i . e . , included or excluded ) and whether commitment was made now or deferred until later . Further , the task captured many aspects of economic decisions in the real world: uncertainty about the true value of a prospect , sustained yield accruing from the investment , economic benefit determined collectively by current assets , and the need to trade-off exploration and exploitation . To preview our findings , whole-brain functional neuroimaging during performance of the task revealed a striking dissociation in the medial prefrontal cortex . The dorsal anterior cingulate cortex ( dACC ) encoded value when a prospect was excluded ( not included ) while the rmPFC encoded value only during deferral ( not commitment ) . Furthermore , joint consideration of the behavioural data and the dACC activity allowed us to pinpoint two pressures that shaped decisions in the task: a bias to defer until a later date , and a bias to weight unfavourable ( excluded ) options more heavily . Although similar biases typically hinder reward harvesting in standard tasks , for our ecologically valid setting we show that they actually allow participants to perform closer to a reward-maximizing agent . 
Paraspeckles are nuclear bodies form around the long non-coding RNA , Neat1 , and RNA-binding proteins . While their role is not fully understood , they are believed to control gene expression at a post-transcriptional level by means of the nuclear retention of mRNA containing in their 3’-UTR inverted repeats of Alu sequences ( IRAlu ) . In this study , we found that , in pituitary cells , all components of paraspeckles including four major proteins and Neat1 displayed a circadian expression pattern . Furthermore the insertion of IRAlu at the 3’-UTR of the EGFP cDNA led to a rhythmic circadian nuclear retention of the egfp mRNA that was lost when paraspeckles were disrupted whereas insertion of a single antisense Alu had only a weak effect . Using real-time video-microscopy , these IRAlu were further shown to drive a circadian expression of EGFP protein . This study shows that paraspeckles , thanks to their circadian expression , control circadian gene expression at a post-transcriptional level .  The circadian clock orchestrates daily rhythms in metabolism , physiology and behavior that allow organisms to anticipate regular changes in their environment , increasing their adaptation ( Asher and Schibler , 2011 ) . Circadian rhythms are underpinned by daily rhythms of gene expression . The transcriptional component of these rhythms is well understood ( Zhang and Kay , 2010 ) . The circadian variation in abundance of the positive ( Clock and Bmal1 ) and the negative ( Per1 , Per2 and Cry1 , Cry2 ) components of these loops drive the circadian transcription of both direct targets genome-wide and a cascade of circadian output transcription factors , which together mediate the circadian transcriptional profile of a cell type or tissue ( Asher and Schibler , 2011; Rey et al . , 2011 ) . Though the core circadian system has concentrated on transcriptional control , it has been apparent that substantial regulation is achieved after transcription so that post-transcriptional controls are emerging as crucial modulators of circadian clocks ( Lim and Allada , 2013; Wang et al . , 2013; Menet et al . , 2012; Koike et al . , 2012; Hurley et al . , 2014 ) . While in eukaryotes , approximately 1%-10% genes are subjected to circadian control directly or indirectly only ~1/5 of the mRNAs that display rhythmic expression are directly driven by transcription , which suggests that post-transcriptional mechanisms including RNA splicing , polyadenylation , mRNA stability , mRNA cytoplasmic export and RNAs nuclear retention are essential layers for generation of gene expression rhythmicity ( Partch et al . , 2014; Menet et al . , 2012; Koike et al . , 2012; Hurley et al . , 2014 ) . Paraspeckles are recently identified nuclear bodies that have been shown to retain RNAs in the nucleus . Paraspeckles contain proteins PSPC1 , RBM14 , NONO , and SFPQ ( Prasanth et al . , 2005 ) and are usually detected as a variable number of discrete dots found in close proximity to nuclear speckles ( Bond and Fox , 2009 ) . One long noncoding RNA , nuclear-enriched abundant transcript one ( Neat1 ) , exclusively localized to paraspeckles serves as a structural component ( Hutchinson et al . , 2007; Chen and Carmichael , 2009; Clemson et al . , 2009; Sasaki and Hirose , 2009; Sunwoo et al . , 2009 ) . The locus generates short and long transcripts from the same promoter , which have previously been identified as MENε ( Neat1-1 ) and MENβ ( Neat1-2 ) , respectively ( Guru et al . , 1997; Sasaki and Hirose , 2009 ) . Because specific depletion of Neat1-2 leads to disruption of paraspeckles ( Sasaki and Hirose , 2009 ) Neat1-1 alone cannot induce paraspeckle formation . Paraspeckles have been shown to retain in the nucleus RNAs containing duplex structures ( Chen and Carmichael , 2008 ) . This is the case for the mouse cationic amino acid transporter 2 ( Cat2 ) transcribed nuclear RNA , Ctn-RNA , an alternatively spliced form of the Cat2 mRNA , which contains a dsRNA structure resulting from inverted short inter-spersed nuclear elements ( SINEs ) in its 3’-UTR ( Prasanth et al . , 2005 ) . In human cells , hundreds of genes contain inverted repeated SINEs ( mainly Alu elements ) in their 3’-UTRs . Alu elements are unique to primates and account for almost all of the human SINEs and >10% of the genome . Their abundance leads to the frequent occurrence of inverted repeat structures ( inverted repeated Alu elements [IRAlus] ) in gene regions ( Chen et al . , 2008 ) . It has been reported previously that mRNAs containing IRAlus in their 3’-UTRs like Nicolin 1 ( NICN1 ) or Lin 28 are retained in the nucleus in paraspeckles ( Chen et al . , 2008; Chen and Carmichael , 2008 ) . Therefore , this nuclear retention pathway of IRAlus in 3’-UTRs of genes provides an additional layer of gene regulation by sequestering mature mRNAs within the nucleus . We recently reported that two protein components of paraspeckles , namely NONO and SFPQ , display a circadian expression pattern in primary cultures of pituitary cells as well as in a rat pituitary cell line , the GH4C1 cells ( Becquet et al . , 2014; Guillaumond et al . , 2011 ) . We used this cell line to determine whether one of the posttranscriptional mechanisms allowing circadian gene expression in pituitary cells could involve the circadian nuclear mRNA retention by paraspeckle bodies . To this end , we first characterized the presence of paraspeckles and we showed that these nuclear bodies were rhythmically expressed in the rat GH4C1 pituitary cell line . We then made a series of EGFP-fused IRAlu or Alu constructs and transfected them into GH4C1 cells to investigate the EGFP expression and the fates of the egfp-IRAlu or egfp-Alu RNA . We showed that an IRAlu element in the 3’-UTR of the egfp mRNA strongly repressed EGFP expression . Further , this reduction was accompanied by significant nuclear retention of the mRNAs , likely by paraspeckle bodies . We showed also that insertion of IRAlus in the 3’-UTR of EGFP reporter gene allowed rhythmic nuclear egfp-IRAlu RNA retention and rhythmic EGFP protein expression . Finally , this rhythmic nuclear egfp-IRAlu RNA retention as well as the rhythmic nuclear retention of some known cycling transcripts that were shown here associated with paraspeckles was lost when paraspeckles were disrupted . 
Presynaptic calcium channel function is critical for converting electrical information into chemical communication but the molecules in the active zone that sculpt this function are poorly understood . We show that Munc13 , an active-zone protein essential for exocytosis , also controls presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channel ( VGCC ) function dictating their behavior during various forms of activity . We demonstrate that in vitro Munc13 interacts with voltage-VGCCs via a pair of basic residues in Munc13's C2B domain . We show that elimination of this interaction by either removal of Munc13 or replacement of Munc13 with a Munc13 C2B mutant alters synaptic VGCC's response to and recovery from high-frequency action potential bursts and alters calcium influx from single action potential stimuli . These studies illustrate a novel form of synaptic modulation and show that Munc13 is poised to profoundly impact information transfer at nerve terminals by controlling both vesicle priming and the trigger for exocytosis .  The active-zone protein , Munc13 , plays a central and essential role in all known forms of chemical synaptic transmission ( Augustin et al . , 1999; Varoqueaux et al . , 2002 ) . Munc13 is critical for correct assembly of exocytic proteins in preparation for neurotransmitter release that it executes at least in part through interactions with plasma membrane SNARE protein , syntaxin ( Ma et al . , 2012 ) . This large multi-domain protein additionally binds several other key active-zone proteins , including RIM , ELKS and bassoon as well as calmodulin . Munc13 , additionally , contains three C2 domains that can mediate interactions with lipid membranes . The importance of Munc13 in synapse function was established in genetic ablation experiments in mice , flies , and worms , but the roles of numerous putative interactions of Munc13 with potential binding partners remain an area of intense interest . Synaptic transmission relies on two distinct molecular pathways for neurotransmitter release: the preparation of neurotransmitter-filled synaptic vesicles to a docked state at the active-zone and action potential-driven opening of voltage-gated calcium channels ( VGCCs ) causing rapid elevation of intracellular calcium in the vicinity of these vesicles . Although a number of active-zone proteins ( Rim , Bassoon , Elks ) have been found to play a role in controlling the location and/or abundance of VGCCs ( Kittel et al . , 2006; Han et al . , 2011; Davydova et al . , 2014 ) , these potential interactions are not thought to impact VGCC properties themselves . Additionally , different variants of Munc13 have been shown to differentially impact exocytosis depending on the distance between release sites and VGCCs ( Hu et al . , 2013; Zhou et al . , 2013 ) . Here , we provide compelling evidence that Munc13 interacts with VGCCs in a way that controls calcium channel use-dependence on millisecond to second time scales at nerve terminals . We pinpointed a critical interaction site to 2 basic residues within the C2B domain of Munc13 on a face that is orthogonal to the potential membrane-interacting loops of this domain . Loss of Munc13 at hippocampal nerve terminals profoundly alters the response of VGCCs during brief AP bursts of very high-frequency firing . Although re-expression of Munc13-harboring point mutations that prevent interaction with VGCCs in Munc13-KD synapses restores exocytosis , it does not rescue the alterations in VGCC function . As a result , synapses expressing this mutant Munc13 have profound changes in ultra-fast plasticity of the exocytic response as well . Thus , in addition to its central importance in controlling SNARE assembly Munc13 also tunes temporal aspects of VGCCs and in turn influences ultra-fast plasticity at nerve terminals . 
The shape and function of plant cells are often highly interdependent . The puzzle-shaped cells that appear in the epidermis of many plants are a striking example of a complex cell shape , however their functional benefit has remained elusive . We propose that these intricate forms provide an effective strategy to reduce mechanical stress in the cell wall of the epidermis . When tissue-level growth is isotropic , we hypothesize that lobes emerge at the cellular level to prevent formation of large isodiametric cells that would bulge under the stress produced by turgor pressure . Data from various plant organs and species support the relationship between lobes and growth isotropy , which we test with mutants where growth direction is perturbed . Using simulation models we show that a mechanism actively regulating cellular stress plausibly reproduces the development of epidermal cell shape . Together , our results suggest that mechanical stress is a key driver of cell-shape morphogenesis .  During growth and morphogenesis , plant cells undergo dramatic changes in size and shape . Starting from small isodiametric cells in proliferative tissues , cells stop dividing and can expand to over 100 times their original size . This results in large elongated cells , such as those in roots and stems , or much more intricate forms , such as the jigsaw puzzle-shaped epidermal cells of Arabidopsis thaliana leaves and cotyledons ( Figure 1A ) , which we call puzzle cells . The processes underlying the formation of these cells are presently unclear , and it has been proposed that they emerge from either the localized outgrowth of lobes ( also called protrusions ) ( Fu , 2002; Mathur , 2006; Xu et al . , 2010; Zhang et al . , 2011 ) , localized restriction of indentations ( Fu et al . , 2009; Sampathkumar et al . , 2014; Lin et al . , 2013 ) , or a combination of both ( Fu et al . , 2005; Abley et al . , 2013; Armour et al . , 2015; Higaki et al . , 2016; Majda et al . , 2017 ) . Specific members of the Rho GTPase of plants ( ROP ) family of proteins play a key role in shaping these cells . ROP2 and ROP6 mutually inhibit each other's accumulation at the plasma membrane , creating a co-repression network that divides the plasma membrane into alternating expression domains , with ROP2 in lobes and ROP6 in indentations ( Fu et al . , 2009 ) . These proteins are thought to regulate pavement cell interdigitation through their interactions with RIC proteins , with ROP2 recruiting actin through RIC4 in the lobes , and ROP6 recruiting cortical microtubules through RIC1 and katanin to restrict growth in indentations . Disruptions in the ROP/RIC pathways lead to defects in puzzle cell formation ( Fu , 2002; Fu et al . , 2005; Fu et al . , 2009; Xu et al . , 2010; Lin et al . , 2013 ) . Since a lobe in one cell must be matched by an indentation in its neighbor , some manner of extracellular communication is required . The plant hormone auxin has been proposed to act as this signal ( Fu et al . , 2005; Xu et al . , 2010; Li et al . , 2011 ) , although recent data call for a re-evaluation of this hypothesis ( Gao et al . , 2015; Belteton et al . , 2018 ) . Although these studies have elucidated many of the molecular players involved in puzzle cell patterning , a mechanistic theory is lacking , in part because the function of the puzzle-shape in epidermal cells is unclear ( Bidhendi and Geitmann , 2018 ) . It has been hypothesized that the interdigitation of the lobes and indentations may strengthen the leaf surface ( Glover , 2000; Jacques et al . , 2014; Sotiriou et al . , 2018 ) , with material sciences studies supporting the plausibility of this idea ( Lee et al . , 2000 ) . Alternatively , puzzle-shaped cells may allow for the correct spacing of the other epidermal cell types , such as guard cells and stomata ( Glover , 2000 ) . However there is little experimental support for these hypotheses at present . Here we propose a different function for the puzzle shape , that it is an adaptation to a developmental constraint related to the mechanical forces that act on turgid plant cells that reside in the epidermis . Mechanically , plant cells are like small balloons inflated with considerable turgor pressure , up to 10 bar in Arabidopsis leaf cells ( Forouzesh et al . , 2013 ) , reaching values up to 50 bar in specialized cells such as stomata ( Franks et al . , 2001 ) . Turgor pressure induces mechanical stress in the cell wall , which is the ratio of the force acting on a cross-section of the material ( cell wall ) scaled by the area of the material resisting the force . If the wall is made of a homogeneous material , then for a given turgor pressure , cell size and shape provide a good predictor of mechanical stress ( Niklas , 1992; Geitmann and Ortega , 2009 ) , with larger cells subject to more stress than smaller ones ( Bassel et al . , 2014 ) . Although the composition of the cell wall is undoubtedly more complex ( reviewed by Cosgrove , 2005; Cosgrove , 2014 ) , this suggests that cell shape and mechanical stress are intimately connected . Most plant tissues emerge from undifferentiated cells that are initially small and isodiametrically shaped , and subsequently proliferate , differentiate and expand . For epidermal cells composing the outermost cell layer in each organ , minimizing mechanical stress on their walls is likely particularly important as the epidermis limits organ growth and is under tension from internal tissues ( Savaldi-Goldstein et al . , 2007; Kutschera and Niklas , 2007; Beauzamy et al . , 2015 ) . Here we explore the relationship between cell shape and mechanical stress , to understand if mechanical stress is a morphological constraint in shaping epidermal cells . We propose a plausible driver for the creation of the intricate , commonly observed puzzle cell forms by demonstrating that they reduce the forces the cell wall has to withstand . We present computer simulation models that show that actively minimizing force leads to the emergence of the puzzle cell shape , reducing stress and thus potentially lowering the amount of cellulose and other wall material required to maintain mechanical integrity of the cell wall . 
Most human genes contain multiple introns , necessitating mechanisms to effectively define exons and ensure their proper connection by spliceosomes . Human spliceosome assembly involves both cross-intron and cross-exon interactions , but how these work together is unclear . We examined in human nuclear extracts dynamic interactions of single pre-mRNA molecules with individual fluorescently tagged spliceosomal subcomplexes to investigate how cross-intron and cross-exon processes jointly promote pre-spliceosome assembly . U1 subcomplex bound to the 5' splice site of an intron acts jointly with U1 bound to the 5' splice site of the next intron to dramatically increase the rate and efficiency by which U2 subcomplex is recruited to the branch site/3' splice site of the upstream intron . The flanking 5' splice sites have greater than additive effects implying distinct mechanisms facilitating U2 recruitment . This synergy of 5' splice sites across introns and exons is likely important in promoting correct and efficient splicing of multi-intron pre-mRNAs .  Spliceosomes consist of the U1 , U2 , and U4/U6 . U5 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins ( snRNPs ) and multiprotein Prp19-complex as major building blocks , plus many transiently interacting splicing factors ( Wahl et al . , 2009 ) . This machinery recognizes and assembles stepwise at splice sites ( SS ) ( U1 at 5'SS and U2 at the 3'SS/branch site ) to form pre-spliceosomes , which are subsequently remodeled into catalytically active spliceosomes . Pre-spliceosomes can form on multi-intron pre-mRNAs through at least two different pathways . An intron can be recognized a ) via cross-intron interactions leading directly to a catalytically active spliceosome , or b ) via cross-exon interactions where the exons flanking an intron are first defined , after which cross-intron interactions between adjacent cross-exon complexes lead to spliceosome assembly ( Moldón and Query , 2010 ) . On human pre-mRNAs , which characteristically harbor multiple long introns and short exons , exon definition predominates ( Berget , 1995; Fox-Walsh et al . , 2005 ) . Indeed , splicing is greatly enhanced when a 5'SS is present across the exon downstream of an intron , highlighting the importance of exon definition in humans ( Talerico and Berget , 1990; Yue and Akusjärvi , 1999 ) . Cross-exon pre-spliceosomes can transition into cross-intron pre-spliceosomes , each having a distinct protein composition; the latter can then productively splice the pre-mRNA ( Chiara and Reed , 1995; Schneider et al . , 2010 ) . However , the mechanisms by which cross-intron and cross-exon pre-spliceosomes work together to facilitate pre-mRNA splicing remain unclear . In S . cerevisiae , where the cross-intron pathway predominates , single-molecule approaches have proven invaluable for elucidating the kinetic pathways and subcomplex dynamics involved in spliceosome assembly ( Semlow et al . , 2016; Warnasooriya and Rueda , 2014 ) . Here we developed the tools necessary to implement colocalization single-molecule spectroscopy ( CoSMoS ) in human cell extracts and used this system to investigate the dynamic mechanism of cross-intron and cross-exon cooperation in human pre-spliceosome assembly . 
Many membrane proteins fold inefficiently and require the help of enzymes and chaperones . Here we reveal a novel folding assistance system that operates on membrane proteins from the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) . We show that folding of the Wnt signaling coreceptor LRP6 is promoted by ubiquitination of a specific lysine , retaining it in the ER while avoiding degradation . Subsequent ER exit requires removal of ubiquitin from this lysine by the deubiquitinating enzyme USP19 . This ubiquitination-deubiquitination is conceptually reminiscent of the glucosylation-deglucosylation occurring in the ER lumen during the calnexin/calreticulin folding cycle . To avoid infinite futile cycles , folded LRP6 molecules undergo palmitoylation and ER export , while unsuccessfully folded proteins are , with time , polyubiquitinated on other lysines and targeted to degradation . This ubiquitin-dependent folding system also controls the proteostasis of other membrane proteins as CFTR and anthrax toxin receptor 2 , two poor folders involved in severe human diseases .  While protein folding may be extremely efficient , the presence of multiple domains , in soluble or membrane proteins , greatly reduces the efficacy of the overall process . Thus , a set of enzymes and chaperones assist folding and ensure that a sufficient number of active molecules reach their final destination ( Brodsky and Skach , 2011; Ellgaard et al . , 2016 ) . Even with help , folding may remain inefficient and thereby sensitive to errors or mutations , leading to disease . An illustrative example of folding inefficiency , and the consequences thereof , is the Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator ( CFTR ) , a chloride channel expressed at the surface of lung epithelial cells ( Riordan , 2008 ) . It has been estimated that less than 25% of newly synthesized CFTR molecules actually reach the plasma membrane . When the number of functional CFTR channels is further reduced , patients suffer from Cystic Fibrosis ( Riordan , 2008 ) . This is the case for mutations that affect the kinetics or thermodynamics of CFTR folding in the ER , such as the most frequent CF mutation ΔF508 , and which are recognized by ER quality control systems and targeted for degradation ( Riordan , 2008 ) . Inefficiency in folding is a fairly common characteristic of transmembrane proteins ( Abrami et al . , 2008b; Deuquet et al . , 2009; Guerriero and Brodsky , 2012 ) . Most transmembrane proteins , which jointly compose 30% of the human proteome , are synthesized by ER-bound ribosomes and co-translationally inserted into the ER membrane ( Ellgaard et al . , 2016; Xu and Ng , 2015 ) . Subsequent folding must proceed in three topological environments: the ER lumen , the membrane and the cytosol . In each of these environments , the protein may benefit from the help of chaperones and folding enzymes . On the luminal side , these are fairly well characterized and include HSP40 , HSP70 and HSP90 family members ( Brodsky and Skach , 2011 ) , the lectin chaperones calnexin and calreticulin ( Lamriben et al . , 2016 ) and protein disulfide isomerases ( Brodsky and Skach , 2011 ) . Less is known about the assisted folding in the ER membrane and on the cytosolic side . If folding or assembly in any of these environments fails , the protein is recognized by quality control machineries and targeted to the ER associated degradation ( ERAD ) pathway ( Lemus and Goder , 2014 ) . ERAD involves polyubiquitination of the cytosolic domains of transmembrane protein , extraction from the ER membrane and degradation by the proteasome ( Lemus and Goder , 2014 ) . Here we have studied the biogenesis of Low-density lipoprotein Receptor-related Protein 6 ( LRP6 ) , a key component of the canonical Wnt signaling pathway , which has been associated with many human pathologies including cancer , osteoporosis and metabolic diseases ( Joiner et al . , 2013 ) , but also involved in the formation of gap junctions in cardiomyocytes ( Li et al . , 2016 ) . LRP6 is a type I membrane protein composed of a large extracellular domain containing multiple ß-propeller and EGF-like domains ( MacDonald et al . , 2009 ) . Proper folding of the ß-propeller domains depends of the dedicated LRP6 chaperone Mesd ( mesoderm development ) ( Hsieh et al . , 2003 ) and possibly other chaperones such as calnexin . We have previously shown that exit of LRP6 from the ER also requires a cytoplasmic post-translational modification , namely S-palmitoylation , on two cysteine residues in close proximity to the transmembrane domain ( Abrami et al . , 2008b ) . LRP6 acylation influences the conformation of this domain , possibly by alleviating the hydrophobic mismatch between the thickness of the membrane and the length of the hydrophobic stretch composing the transmembrane domain . Mutation of the palmitoylation sites leads to retention of LRP6 in the ER and ubiquitination on Lys-1403 ( Abrami et al . , 2008b ) indicative of its recognition by a quality control mechanism ( Feldman and van der Goot , 2009 ) . Once properly folded , LRP6 exits the ER , it transits through the Golgi , as indicated by the acquisition of Endoglycosidase H insensitive complex sugars ( Abrami et al . , 2008b ) , before reaching the plasma membrane where its signal role takes place . Here we have further investigated LRP6 biogenesis in the ER . We show that newly synthesized wild type LRP6 also undergoes ubiquitination , on the same site ( Lys-1403 ) , and that this post-translational modification promotes its folding . For ER exit to occur , ubiquitination must however be subsequently removed . This is mediated by the deubiquitinating enzyme USP19 , one of the isoforms of which is tail-anchored to the ER ( Hassink et al . , 2009; Wing , 2016 ) . It is thought to play an essential role in skeletal muscle atrophy through unclear mechanisms ( Wing , 2016 ) . At the more mechanistic level , USP19 has been shown to control the stability of several cytoplasmic proteins such as the inhibitors of apoptosis c-IAP1 , and c-IAP2 ( Mei et al . , 2011 ) , hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha ( HIF-1α ) ( Altun et al . , 2012 ) and the initiator of autophagy Beclin1 ( Jin et al . , 2016 ) . Interestingly , USP19 is a target gene of the unfolded protein response ( UPR ) and was found to rescue CFTR ΔF508 from ERAD ( Hassink et al . , 2009 ) . More recently it was found that USP19 is a key player in a novel misfolded-protein associated secretion MAPS pathway ( Lee et al . , 2016 ) . We show that USP19 controls the cellular levels of LRP6 . In the absence of USP19 , LRP6 is efficiently targeted to ERAD . Upon USP19 overexpression , ER exit of LRP6 is greatly enhanced . This work reveals the existence of a novel assisted-folding system that operates on the cytosolic side of the ER and depends on site-specific cycles of ubiquitination-deubiquitination . Upon ubiquitination on Lys-1403 , LRP6 presumably interacts with an ubiquitin-binding protein that acts as a chaperone and provides the protein with time to fold . If folding is successful , LRP6 is transported out of the ER , a step that is favored by palmitoylation ( Abrami et al . , 2008b ) . If folding is impaired or delayed , polyubiquitination of other cytosolic lysine residues takes over and targets LRP6 to ERAD . The here identified ubiquitination-deubiquitination assisted-folding cycle also appears to operate on other membrane proteins such as CFTR or the anthrax toxin receptor 2 ( also know as Capillary Morphogenesis gene 2 , CMG2 ) , loss of function of which leads to Hyaline Fibromatosis Syndrome ( Deuquet et al . , 2012 ) . 
Sex-based modulation of cognitive processes could set the stage for individual differences in vulnerability to neuropsychiatric disorders . While value-based decision making processes in particular have been proposed to be influenced by sex differences , the overall correct performance in decision making tasks often show variable or minimal differences across sexes . Computational tools allow us to uncover latent variables that define different decision making approaches , even in animals with similar correct performance . Here , we quantify sex differences in mice in the latent variables underlying behavior in a classic value-based decision making task: a restless two-armed bandit . While male and female mice had similar accuracy , they achieved this performance via different patterns of exploration . Male mice tended to make more exploratory choices overall , largely because they appeared to get ‘stuck’ in exploration once they had started . Female mice tended to explore less but learned more quickly during exploration . Together , these results suggest that sex exerts stronger influences on decision making during periods of learning and exploration than during stable choices . Exploration during decision making is altered in people diagnosed with addictions , depression , and neurodevelopmental disabilities , pinpointing the neural mechanisms of exploration as a highly translational avenue for conferring sex-modulated vulnerability to neuropsychiatric diagnoses .  Almost every neuropsychiatric condition shows sex and/or gender biases in risk , presentation , etiology , and prognosis ( Green et al . , 2019; Grissom and Reyes , 2019; Shansky , 2019 ) . This raises the possibility that sex-modulated biological mechanisms could modulate cognitive processes that confer vulnerability and/or resilience to mental health challenges . However , sex differences in cognitive task performance can be difficult to detect and even more variable than would be expected given the non-dichotomous , overlapping impacts of sex mechanisms on cognition ( Maney , 2016 ) . An underrecognized source of variability in cognitive tasks is that there can be multiple ways to achieve the same level of performance on the primary dependent variables used to assess these tasks , such as ‘number of correct responses’ . This means that equivalent levels of performance could mask individual differences in how males and females are solving the same problem . Indeed , we have recently shown that examining the latent strategies underlying task performance --rather than differences in final performance--can reveal that individual males and females can take very different strategic paths to the learning of action-outcome associations ( Chen et al . , 2021b ) . Here , we applied computational tools to characterize sex differences in the latent variables underlying behavior to understand sex differences in a key cognitive process regulating reward-guided behaviors: balancing exploration and exploitation . In an uncertain world , we must balance two goals: exploiting rewarding options when they are available , but also exploring alternatives that could be more rewarding or provide new information about the world . Too little exploration makes behavior inflexible and perseverative . Too much makes it impossible to sustain rewarding behaviors . Exploration is dysregulated in numerous neuropsychiatric disorders ( Addicott et al . , 2017; Wilson et al . , 2021 ) , many of which are also sex-biased ( Green et al . , 2019; Grissom and Reyes , 2019; Shansky , 2019 ) . This suggests that sex differences in exploration and exploitation could contribute to sex-linked vulnerability to these conditions , though we do not yet understand how exploration and exploitation differ with sex . Because exploration is a major source of errors in task performance more broadly ( Ebitz et al . , 2019; Pisupati et al . , 2019 ) , sex-differences in exploration could contribute to performance differences and variability seen across tasks and speciess ( Grissom and Reyes , 2019; van den Bos et al . , 2013 ) . To examine whether there are sex differences in exploration , we trained male and female mice on a classic explore/exploit task , a spatial restless two-armed bandit ( Ebitz et al . , 2018 ) . Males showed higher levels of exploration than females throughout the task . This was because males were more likely to get ‘stuck’ in extended periods of exploration before committing to a favored choice . On the other hand , females showed elevated reward learning specifically during bouts of exploration , making exploratory trials more informative , which allowed them to start exploiting a favored choice earlier than males . Together , these results demonstrate that while the overall performance was similar , males and females exhibited different patterns of exploration while interacting with the same uncertain environment . 
In endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation ( ERAD ) , membrane proteins are ubiquitinated , extracted from the membrane , and degraded by the proteasome . The cytosolic ATPase Cdc48 drives extraction by pulling on polyubiquitinated substrates . How hydrophobic transmembrane ( TM ) segments are moved from the phospholipid bilayer into cytosol , often together with hydrophilic and folded ER luminal protein parts , is not known . Using a reconstituted system with purified proteins from Saccharomyces cerevisiae , we show that the ubiquitin ligase Doa10 ( Teb-4/MARCH6 in animals ) is a retrotranslocase that facilitates membrane protein extraction . A substrate’s TM segment interacts with the membrane-embedded domain of Doa10 and then passively moves into the aqueous phase . Luminal substrate segments cross the membrane in an unfolded state . Their unfolding occurs on the luminal side of the membrane by cytoplasmic Cdc48 action . Our results reveal how a membrane-bound retrotranslocase cooperates with the Cdc48 ATPase in membrane protein extraction .  The endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) is a major site for protein folding and maturation in the endomembrane system of the eukaryotic cell . A conserved quality control pathway called ER-associated protein degradation ( ERAD ) removes misfolded , unassembled and mistargeted proteins from the ER into the cytosol where they are degraded by the proteasome ( Christianson and Ye , 2014; Mehrtash and Hochstrasser , 2019; Ruggiano et al . , 2014 ) . ERAD thus contributes to protein homeostasis . Its malfunction results in ER stress ( Hwang and Qi , 2018 ) , and it has been linked to several human diseases ( Guerriero and Brodsky , 2012; Qi et al . , 2017 ) . ERAD is part of the ubiquitin proteasome system . Studies in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae identified two universally conserved membrane-embedded ubiquitin ligases that ubiquitinate ERAD substrates , Hrd1 ( SYVN1 in human ) ( Bordallo et al . , 1998; Hampton et al . , 1996; Kikkert et al . , 2004; Nadav et al . , 2003 ) and Doa10 ( TEB-4/MARCH6 in animals , SUD-1 in Arabidopsis thaliana ) ( Doblas et al . , 2013; Hassink et al . , 2005; Swanson et al . , 2001 ) . In higher eukaryotes , a larger variety of ubiquitin ligases plays a role in ERAD ( Olzmann et al . , 2013 ) . Substrates of ERAD can be soluble luminal proteins , or membrane proteins that either need to be moved across or extracted from the ER membrane . This process , termed retrotranslocation or dislocation , requires the AAA protein Cdc48 ( VCP or p97 in animals ) ( Bays et al . , 2001; Garza et al . , 2009; Jarosch et al . , 2002; Nakatsukasa et al . , 2008; Rabinovich et al . , 2002; Ye et al . , 2001 ) . Cdc48 is recruited to substrates by its cofactors Ufd1 and Npl4 which interact with polyubiquitin chains with lysine 48 linkage ( Meyer et al . , 2002; Ye et al . , 2003 ) . The Cdc48 complex is thought to generate a pulling force that drives extraction of polyubiquitinated proteins from the membrane . This notion is based on biochemical experiments with soluble proteins ( Bodnar and Rapoport , 2017; Olszewski et al . , 2019 ) and recent cryo-EM structures ( Bodnar et al . , 2018; Cooney et al . , 2019; Twomey et al . , 2019 ) , which showed that processive threading of a substrate through the central pore of the Cdc48 hexamer under ATP consumption leads to unfolding . Apart from the Cdc48 ATPase , membrane proteins of the ERAD machinery are thought to contribute to retrotranslocation . For soluble substrates , Hrd1 forms part of a retrotranslocon pore from the ER lumen to the cytosol ( Baldridge and Rapoport , 2016; Carvalho et al . , 2010; Stein et al . , 2014; Vasic et al . , 2020 ) , but other components such as the Derlin Der1 are also involved , as shown by biochemical data and a recent cryo-EM structure of the Hrd1 complex ( Mehnert et al . , 2014; Wu et al . , 2020 ) . Less is known about retrotranslocation of membrane proteins . The machinery that mediates this process needs to be quite versatile , because substrates can exhibit different topologies . They may contain one or multiple transmembrane ( TM ) segments , stretches of hydrophilic amino acids in luminal loops and tightly folded domains . How these structurally and physicochemically diverse elements move across a phospholipid bilayer during the extraction process is not known . Multipass transmembrane proteins such as members of the Derlin family ( Der1 and Dfm1 in yeast; Derlin-1 , –2 in animals ) , Hrd1 and Doa10 have been suggested to act as retrotranslocases for membrane proteins ( Carvalho et al . , 2010; Hampton and Sommer , 2012; Lilley and Ploegh , 2004; Neal et al . , 2018; Swanson et al . , 2001; Ye et al . , 2004 ) . Another unresolved but linked question regards the folding state of luminal domains during the retrotranslocation process . It is unclear whether luminal domains are moved across the membrane in a folded state , if unfolding occurs prior to retrotranslocation , potentially by a separate ER luminal machinery , or if unfolding is directly coupled to retrotranslocation ( Brodsky , 2012; Shi et al . , 2019 ) . To address these questions , we investigated ERAD mediated by the ubiquitin ligase Doa10 from S . cerevisiae . Doa10 is a 150 kDa protein with 14 TM segments ( Kreft et al . , 2006 ) . Its substrates include single- and multi-spanning membrane proteins of the ER and inner nuclear membrane , but also soluble proteins of the cyto- and nucleoplasm ( Ravid et al . , 2006 ) . No completely soluble , luminal substrates of Doa10 have been described . The degrons of Doa10 substrates can be cytoplasmic ( Furth et al . , 2011; Swanson et al . , 2001 ) , or within the TM region ( Habeck et al . , 2015 ) . Furthermore , Doa10 regulates sterol metabolism in plants , fungi and animals by degrading squalene monooxygenase ( Doblas et al . , 2013; Foresti et al . , 2013 ) . Through degradation of mislocalized membrane proteins , Doa10 has a role in maintaining organelle identity ( Dederer et al . , 2019; Matsumoto et al . , 2019; Ruggiano et al . , 2016 ) . Doa10 works in concert with two ubiquitin conjugating enzymes ( E2 ) , the tail-anchored membrane protein Ubc6 and the soluble cytoplasmic protein Ubc7 ( Swanson et al . , 2001 ) . Ubc7 is anchored to the ER membrane by Cue1 ( Biederer et al . , 1997 ) . Experiments with soluble cytoplasmic protein fragments showed that Ubc6 and Ubc7 have different roles in the build-up of polyubiquitin chains . Ubc6 initiates ubiquitin chains by transferring the first ubiquitin moiety , whereas Ubc7 extends ubiquitin chains with mainly lysine 48 linkage ( Weber et al . , 2016 ) . Importantly , Ubc6 is itself an unstable protein and degraded in a Doa10-dependent manner ( Swanson et al . , 2001; Walter et al . , 2001 ) . Similarly , Ubc6 homologues in plants and mammals have been shown to be unstable and are degraded by the proteasome ( Lam et al . , 2014 ) . Interestingly , in case of the Arabidopsis thaliana Ubc6 homologue Ubc32 , and the mammalian Ube2J1 , Hrd1 was identified as the ubiquitin ligase involved ( Burr et al . , 2011; Chen et al . , 2016 ) . Here , we developed a reconstituted system with purified proteins to investigate the role of Doa10 in membrane protein retrotranslocation . This system allowed us to mechanistically investigate membrane protein extraction , without relying on indirect read-outs of downstream reactions such as proteasomal degradation . We show that Doa10 is a membrane protein retrotranslocase . Furthermore , we show how Doa10 cooperates with the Cdc48 ATPase in the extraction of proteins with folded luminal domains . 
Extracellular Hedgehog ( Hh ) proteins induce transcriptional changes in target cells by inhibiting the proteolytic processing of full-length Drosophila Ci or mammalian Gli proteins to nuclear transcriptional repressors and by activating the full-length Ci or Gli proteins . We used Ci variants expressed at physiological levels to investigate the contributions of these mechanisms to dose-dependent Hh signaling in Drosophila wing imaginal discs . Ci variants that cannot be processed supported a normal pattern of graded target gene activation and the development of adults with normal wing morphology , when supplemented by constitutive Ci repressor , showing that Hh can signal normally in the absence of regulated processing . The processing-resistant Ci variants were also significantly activated in the absence of Hh by elimination of Cos2 , likely acting through binding the CORD domain of Ci , or PKA , revealing separate inhibitory roles of these two components in addition to their well-established roles in promoting Ci processing .  Hedgehog ( Hh ) signaling proteins guide development and help maintain adult tissue homeostasis in both invertebrates and vertebrates ( Hui and Angers , 2011; Ingham and McMahon , 2001; Petrova and Joyner , 2014 ) . Aberrant Hh protein production , distribution , and responses are common causes of developmental birth defects and cancer , including holoprosencephaly , limb and digit abnormalities , medulloblastoma , and basal cell carcinoma ( Anderson et al . , 2012; Cortes et al . , 2019; Ng and Curran , 2011; Pak and Segal , 2016; Petrova and Joyner , 2014; Sasai et al . , 2019 ) . Understanding the basic molecular mechanisms of Hh communication is the first step in combating these various Hh-related disorders . Many conserved Hh components were initially identified in Drosophila melanogaster and then found to have a mammalian ortholog , including the key transducing protein Smoothened ( Smo ) , which is now the target of several anticancer drugs ( Cortes et al . , 2019; Ng and Curran , 2011; Pak and Segal , 2016 ) . There are also differences between Drosophila and mammalian Hh signal transduction but neither pathway is fully understood ( Briscoe and Thérond , 2013; Huangfu and Anderson , 2006; Kong et al . , 2019; Lee et al . , 2016; Liu , 2019 ) . It is therefore important to understand the fundamental molecular mechanisms involved in the pathway in Drosophila which is well suited to precise and detailed genetic tests conducted under physiological conditions . Hh signaling depends on a complex set of protein interactions , so it is imperative to investigate mechanisms under conditions of normal stoichiometry of signaling proteins in their normal setting . In flies , Hh alters the interactions among a set of core signaling components to elicit the transcriptional induction and de-repression of Hh target genes through Cubitus Interruptus ( Ci ) , the singular transcription factor of the pathway ( Domínguez et al . , 1996; Méthot and Basler , 2001; Xiong et al . , 2015 ) . Notably , Hh can act as a morphogen that signals through Ci to transcribe different Hh target gene products depending on how much ligand is present at the cell membrane . In third instar larval Drosophila wing discs , Hh is expressed in posterior compartment cells and Ci is expressed only in anterior cells , so that Hh signals to a band of anterior cells at the anterior-posterior ( AP ) border with declining strength from posterior to anterior ( Blair , 2003; Lawrence and Struhl , 1996 ) . Within this AP border territory , Ci induces decapentaplegic ( dpp ) in a broad region , patched ( ptc or a ptc-lacZ transcriptional reporter ) in a gradient within a narrower domain , and engrailed ( en ) only in the cells closest to the source of Hh ( see Figure 8; Blair , 2003; Vervoort , 2000 ) . Hh controls Ci activity by regulating the processing , activation , and degradation of full-length Ci ( known as Ci-155 ) . In the absence of Hh , the ligand-free receptor , Patched ( Ptc ) , actively inhibits the actions of another transmembrane protein Smoothened ( Smo ) , which is present under these conditions at relatively low levels and mainly associated with internal vesicles ( Denef et al . , 2000; Nakano et al . , 2004; Strigini and Cohen , 1997; Zhao et al . , 2007 ) . Costal2 ( Cos2 ) , a kinesin-family protein , complexed to Fused ( Fu ) , acts as a scaffold to bring Protein Kinase A ( PKA ) , Glycogen Synthase Kinase-3 ( GSK3 ) , and Casein Kinase-1 ( CK1 ) to C-155 and facilitate phosphorylation of Ci-155 at a series of clustered PKA , CK1 and GSK3 sites ( Ranieri et al . , 2014; Zhang et al . , 2005 ) . This creates a binding site for Slimb , the substrate recognition component of a Cul1-SCF ubiquitin ligase complex , which promotes Ci-155 ubiquitination and subsequent partial proteolysis ( ‘processing’ ) by the proteasome to a repressor form ( Ci-75 ) . Ci-75 lacks the C-terminal half of Ci-155 , which includes its transcriptional activation domain and an epitope for a monoclonal antibody ( 2A1 ) commonly used to detect full-length Ci-155 ( Aza-Blanc et al . , 1997; Jia et al . , 2005; Jiang , 2006; Smelkinson and Kalderon , 2006; Smelkinson et al . , 2007 ) . Ci-75 has a critical role in anterior wing disc cells , silencing transcription of dpp and hh ( Domínguez et al . , 1996 ) . Hh binding to Ptc leads to Smo activation in a process that involves Smo phosphorylation by PKA , CK1 , and G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 ( Gprk2 ) , Smo accumulation at the plasma membrane and a change in Smo conformation or oligomerization ( Kalderon , 2008; Maier et al . , 2014; Zhao et al . , 2007 ) . Activation enhances and likely alters the nature of binding of Smo to Cos2-Fu complexes , with two important consequences . First , Ci-155 processing is inhibited , due to titration of Cos2 complexes away from Ci-155 and perhaps also to partial dissociation of PKA , CK1 or GSK3 from Cos2/Fu complexes ( Li et al . , 2014; Ranieri et al . , 2014; Zhang et al . , 2005 ) . Second , Cos2-associated Fu molecules are brought together to cross-phosphorylate activation loop residues , leading to full activation of Fu protein kinase activity ( Shi et al . , 2011; Zhang et al . , 2011; Zhou and Kalderon , 2011 ) . Activated Fu protein kinase is critical for the full activation of Ci-155 . If Ci-155 processing is blocked but there is no Fu kinase activity , Ci-155 is largely maintained in an inactive cytoplasmic form through direct associations with Suppressor of fused ( Su ( fu ) ) and Cos2 ( Forbes et al . , 1993; Ohlmeyer and Kalderon , 1998; Préat et al . , 1993 ) . Fu protein associations , but not kinase activity , are required for Ci-155 processing; the role of Fu kinase activity in Ci-155 activation is therefore generally studied in isolation by using point mutations in the kinase domain that only eliminate protein kinase activity and reduce Ci-155 activation ( Thérond et al . , 1996; Zadorozny et al . , 2015 ) . Dose-dependent inhibition of Ci-155 processing at the AP border of wing discs might be expected to lead to a profile of increasing Ci-155 levels from anterior to posterior , with maximal levels immediately adjacent to the posterior compartment . However , Ci-155 levels actually peak near the middle of the AP border region and decline substantially over the posterior half where Hh target gene activation is strongest ( Ohlmeyer and Kalderon , 1998; Strigini and Cohen , 1997 ) . This decline is dependent on high pathway activity and is absent , for example , in wing discs lacking Fu kinase activity ( Ohlmeyer and Kalderon , 1998 ) . The decline in Ci-155 levels has generally been attributed to the transcriptional induction of Roadkill ( Rdx ) , also known as Hedgehog-induced BTB protein ( Hib ) , the substrate recognition component of a Cul3 ubiquitin ligase , culminating in the complete proteolytic destruction of ubiquitinylated Ci-155 ( Jiang , 2006; Kent et al . , 2006; Zhang et al . , 2006 ) . Loss of Rdx/Hib was initially reported to increase Ci-155 levels at the AP border ( Kent et al . , 2006; Zhang et al . , 2006 ) and Rdx/Hib can target Ci-155 directly ( Zhang et al . , 2009 ) . However , later studies reported that Rdx/Hib can also affect Ci-155 indirectly by modulating Su ( fu ) levels ( Liu et al . , 2014 ) and provided evidence that Ci-155 levels in the posterior half of the AP border of wing discs remained low in null Rdx/Hib mutant clones ( Seong et al . , 2010 ) . Moreover , the simple idea that Rdx/Hib-induced Ci-155 degradation serves to limit pathway activity in wing discs has only limited and mixed support ( Kent et al . , 2006; Seong et al . , 2010; Seong and Ishii , 2013; Zhang et al . , 2006 ) . Thus , the mechanisms and consequences of Hh-promoted Ci-155 reduction at the AP border remain uncertain . One indisputable consequence is that Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction obscures direct visualization of the pattern of Hh-inhibited Ci-155 processing at the AP border . Ci-155 activator and Ci-75 repressor share the same zinc finger DNA-binding domain and have opposing transcriptional effects , so the concentration of each species is potentially important for all Hh target genes . However , individual target genes have different sensitivities to Ci repressor and activator depending on the arrangement of Ci binding sites and the tonic influence of other transcription factors ( Biehs et al . , 2010; Méthot and Basler , 2001; Müller and Basler , 2000; Parker et al . , 2011 ) . For example , repression by Ci is essential to silence dpp but not ptc or en in anterior cells away from the wing disc AP border . It is not clear what exactly are the spatial profiles of Ci-155 processing , Ci-155 activation or Hh-stimulated Ci-155 reduction , to what extent each regulated mechanism contributes independently to Hh morphogen action , or whether these Hh-stimulated changes are inter-dependent . To address these issues , we set out to study how processing-resistant Ci variants affected Ci-155 protein levels and activity . The processing of Ci variants in wing discs has been investigated with some success using convenient conditions of non-physiological levels of GAL4-responsive UAS-driven transgene expression ( Jia et al . , 2005; Smelkinson et al . , 2007 ) . However , we previously found that Ci-155 activation , in contrast to Ci-155 processing , cannot be studied reliably in this way ( Garcia-Garcia et al . , 2017 ) . Specifically , ci-null animals are very rarely rescued to adulthood using different combinations of ci-Gal4 and UAS-Ci transgenes at a variety of temperatures , and anterior En expression at the AP border was not rescued in ci-null clones by UAS-Ci expressed with the commonly used wing disc driver C765-Gal4 , with transgene expression alone sometimes eliciting a dominant-negative effect on Hh target gene expression ( Garcia-Garcia et al . , 2017 ) . We therefore developed genomic ci transgenes ( Garcia-Garcia et al . , 2017 ) and an efficient CRISPR strategy to directly alter the ci gene itself in order to study the full range of variant Ci activities under strictly physiological conditions . In this study , we examined several processing-resistant Ci variants and found that Ci-155 protein was elevated to uniformly high levels in anterior wing disc cells away from the AP border , confirming inhibition of Ci-155 processing . At the AP border there was a prominent graded decline of Ci-155 protein from anterior to posterior for those variants fully activated by Hh , providing the clearest image yet of Hh-stimulated effects on Ci-155 levels independent of processing . Remarkably , the pattern and strength of ptc-lacZ and En induction in those wing discs was normal . Moreover , processing-resistant Ci variants were also found to support the development of adults with normal wing patterning , provided a constitutive source of Ci repressor was present to suppress ectopic dpp expression in anterior cells . Thus , Ci can mediate normal Hh morphogen action in wing discs in the complete absence of regulated processing . We also used processing-resistant Ci variants to study the effects of inhibition of processing on Ci-155 activation by Fu , as well as the potential roles of PKA and Cos2 in regulating Ci-155 activity in isolation from their well-established role in Ci-155 processing . We found that , in the absence of Hh , PKA inhibits Ci activity independent of the phosphorylation sites that regulate processing and that Cos2 inhibits Ci-155 activity , most likely by binding to the CORD region on Ci-155 . 
Nociceptive information is relayed through the spinal cord dorsal horn , a critical area in sensory processing . The neuronal circuits in this region that underpin sensory perception must be clarified to better understand how dysfunction can lead to pathological pain . This study used an optogenetic approach to selectively activate spinal interneurons that express the calcium-binding protein calretinin ( CR ) . We show that these interneurons form an interconnected network that can initiate and sustain enhanced excitatory signaling , and directly relay signals to lamina I projection neurons . Photoactivation of CR interneurons in vivo resulted in a significant nocifensive behavior that was morphine sensitive , caused a conditioned place aversion , and was enhanced by spared nerve injury . Furthermore , halorhodopsin-mediated inhibition of these interneurons elevated sensory thresholds . Our results suggest that dorsal horn circuits that involve excitatory CR neurons are important for the generation and amplification of pain and identify these interneurons as a future analgesic target .  Sensory information from the body , including nociception , itch , light touch , and thermal modalities , is first transmitted into the spinal cord dorsal horn , where this afferent input can be modulated , gated and prioritized before being relayed to higher centers for sensory perception ( Todd , 2010; Peirs and Seal , 2016 ) . It is well established that alterations to neuronal circuits within the dorsal horn can directly contribute to neuropathic and inflammatory pain , as well as persistent itch ( Basbaum et al . , 2009; Braz et al . , 2014 ) . Despite this being a region of immense biological importance , our understanding of the neuronal circuits associated with particular sensory modalities remains limited ( Todd , 2010; Peirs and Seal , 2016 ) . To address this knowledge gap , several groups have recently implicated neurochemically-distinct subpopulations of dorsal horn interneurons with the perception of both acute and chronic pain states ( Duan et al . , 2014; Smith et al . , 2015; Peirs et al . , 2015; Petitjean et al . , 2015; Boyle et al . , 2019 ) . Historically , much of the research effort on spinal circuits has focused on inhibition ( Zeilhofer et al . , 2012 ) , and a growing number of discrete inhibitory interneuron populations have now been identified as substrates for sensory gating in the spinal cord ( Duan et al . , 2014; Petitjean et al . , 2015; Foster et al . , 2015; Cui et al . , 2016; Boyle et al . , 2019 ) . In contrast , our understanding of the role excitatory interneurons play in sensory processing is far less developed . Generally , excitatory interneurons are considered to provide polysynaptic relays linking circuits dedicated to innocuous and noxious sensory input , with inhibitory populations normally modulating the passage of information through these pathways ( Takazawa and MacDermott , 2010; Duan et al . , 2014; Punnakkal et al . , 2014 ) . Such a limited role for excitatory interneurons is surprising given this population is more than double that of inhibitory interneurons in the region ( laminae I and II ) ( Polgár et al . , 2013 ) . Furthermore , detailed paired recording studies have also shown that ~85% of the synaptic connections in the DH are excitatory ( Santos et al . , 2007 ) . Notably , we have recently shown that most calretinin-expressing ( CR ) neurons in laminae I and II exhibit specific electrophysiological , morphological and neurochemical properties consistent with an excitatory phenotype and respond to noxious peripheral stimulation ( Smith et al . , 2015; Smith et al . , 2016 ) . In fact , chemogenetic activation of CR neurons has been shown to cause nocifensive behaviors and dorsal horn activation patterns consistent with mechanical hypersensitivity ( Peirs et al . , 2015 ) , whereas genetic ablation of these neurons can cause a selective loss of light punctate touch sensation ( Duan et al . , 2014 ) . Prior work has established that a specific excitatory interneuron population in the deep dorsal horn that transiently express VGLUT3 relays low threshold input to CR neurons ( Peirs et al . , 2015 ) . In this study , we aim to identify and define the postsynaptic circuits engaged by the CR population and determine the functional significance of these neurons for sensory processing and perception . 
Mutations in the gene encoding Ras-associated binding protein 23 ( RAB23 ) cause Carpenter Syndrome , which is characterized by multiple developmental abnormalities including polysyndactyly and defects in skull morphogenesis . To understand how RAB23 regulates skull development , we generated Rab23-deficient mice that survive to an age where skeletal development can be studied . Along with polysyndactyly , these mice exhibit premature fusion of multiple sutures resultant from aberrant osteoprogenitor proliferation and elevated osteogenesis in the suture . FGF10-driven FGFR1 signaling is elevated in Rab23-/-sutures with a consequent imbalance in MAPK , Hedgehog signaling and RUNX2 expression . Inhibition of elevated pERK1/2 signaling results in the normalization of osteoprogenitor proliferation with a concomitant reduction of osteogenic gene expression , and prevention of craniosynostosis . Our results suggest a novel role for RAB23 as an upstream negative regulator of both FGFR and canonical Hh-GLI1 signaling , and additionally in the non-canonical regulation of GLI1 through pERK1/2 .  Ras-associated binding protein 23 ( RAB23 ) belongs to the RAB family of small GTPases , which function during several steps in cell vesicle trafficking ( Evans et al . , 2003 ) . RAB23 has 35–40% sequence homology with other RABs , it localizes to the plasma membrane and is proposed to regulate cargo internalization and relocation in the cell ( Evans et al . , 2003; Leaf and Von Zastrow , 2015; Lim and Tang , 2015; Olkkonen et al . , 1994 ) . RAB23 is unusual amongst RABs as it is involved in embryogenesis , for instance in heart and limb patterning , neural tube closure and skeletal development ( Eggenschwiler and Anderson , 2000; Eggenschwiler et al . , 2001; Fuller et al . , 2014; Günther et al . , 1994; Hor and Goh , 2018 ) . RAB23 negatively regulates Hh signaling during mouse neural tube development ( Eggenschwiler and Anderson , 2000 ) , and it controls nodal signaling independently of Hh signaling during vertebrate left-right patterning ( Fuller et al . , 2014 ) . RAB23 is involved in trafficking D1-type dopaminergic receptors ( Leaf and Von Zastrow , 2015 ) and kinesin-2 motor protein Kif-17 ( Lim and Tang , 2015 ) to the primary cilium . However , direct ciliary function of RAB23 is unclear as cilium length and function are reported normal in Rab23-/- mice ( Evans et al . , 2003; Fuller et al . , 2014 ) . Multiple mutations in RAB23 have been reported in patients with the autosomal recessive Carpenter syndrome; the majority of mutations result in nonsense-mediated decay while others include missense and in-frame deletions ( Jenkins et al . , 2011 ) . Carpenter syndrome ( CS , MIM #201000 ) or Acrocephalopolysyndactyly type II is a multi-organ developmental disorder with polysyndactyly , congenital heart defects , mental retardation , obesity and craniosynostosis as central features ( Carpenter , 1909; Jenkins et al . , 2007 ) . Craniosynostosis is the premature fusion of one or more craniofacial sutures that results in major disruption of face and skull growth . Mesenchymal cells in the center of the suture must be kept in an undifferentiated state to maintain suture patency , while progenitor cells at the osteogenic fronts proliferate and differentiate to facilitate bone growth . Suture biogenesis is dependent on the correct patterning of the skeletal elements , as well as the regulation of the mesenchymal stem cell niche , osteogenic condensation formation , osteoprogenitor proliferation and differentiation ( Rice and Rice , 2008; Twigg and Wilkie , 2015 ) . These developmental processes are regulated to permit coordinated craniofacial growth , without the fusion of the neighboring bones and consequent cessation of growth . Mutations in FGFRs are a major cause of syndromic craniosynostosis , with many of the mutations conferring a gain of function ( Hajihosseini , 2008; Wilkie et al . , 2017 ) . FGFRs isoforms show a distinct FGF ligand binding affinity and biological functions ( Ornitz and Itoh , 2015 ) . However , studies have shown that in an Apert syndrome ( FGFR2 mutation ) mouse model isoform FGFR2c loses ligand specificity , and is able to bind with cognate FGF10 ( Ibrahimi et al . , 2001; Ibrahimi et al . , 2004; Johnson and Wilkie , 2011; Yu et al . , 2000 ) . Interestingly , genetic knockdown of Fgf10 in this mouse model could rescue the premature fusion ( Hajihosseini et al . , 2009 ) . FGF signaling pathway members have not been linked to RAB23-mediated trafficking . However , study suggests that RAB23 resides in the plasma membrane and proposed to be involved in endocytosis ( Evans et al . , 2003 ) . In this context , RAB23 might have a direct role in growth factor receptor recycling and turnover , and therefore regulate the availability of the FGF receptors at the cell surface ( Langemeyer et al . , 2018; Zerial and McBride , 2001 ) . Similar to Carpenter syndrome , several craniosynostosis syndromes caused by mutations in FGFRs are characterized by patients exhibiting syndactyly and occasionally polysyndactyly ( Goos and Mathijssen , 2019; Mantilla-Capacho et al . , 2005 ) . Also , mutations in several hedgehog ( Hh ) pathway members cause polydactyly ( Malik , 2014; Ullah et al . , 2019 ) . Notably , Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome ( MIM # 175700 ) is caused by haploinsufficiency of the Hh signaling negative regulator , GLI3 ( Vortkamp et al . , 1991 ) . In addition to the polysyndactyly , some patients with Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome exhibit craniosynostosis , and the mouse model for Greig cephalopolysyndactyly syndrome ( Gli3Xt-J/Xt-J ) shows complete phenotypic penetrance for both craniosynostosis and polydactyly ( Hurst et al . , 2011; Rice et al . , 2010 ) . Also , a recurrent mosaic mutation in the hedgehog receptor Smoothened ( SMO ) causes craniosynostosis and polysyndactyly ( Twigg et al . , 2016 ) . These overlapping skeletal phenotypes caused by mutations in FGFRs , Hh regulators and RAB23 are suggestive of common etiological mechanisms . FGF and Hh signaling have well-defined roles during intramembranous osteogenesis . FGF signaling regulates many stages including mesenchymal condensation formation , osteoprogenitor proliferation and differentiation and activation of the osteogenic transcription factor RUNX2 ( Debiais et al . , 1998; Kim et al . , 1998; Ornitz and Itoh , 2015; Yoon et al . , 2014 ) . IHH positively regulates osteoprogenitor recruitment to the osteogenic front and GLI transcription factors regulate stem cell maintenance and osteoprogenitor proliferation ( Lenton et al . , 2011; Rice et al . , 2010; Veistinen et al . , 2012; Zhao et al . , 2015 ) . Interestingly , RAB23 regulates GLI1 in a Su ( Fu ) -dependent manner ( Chi et al . , 2012 ) and GLI1-positive cells have been identified in the suture as the main source of mesenchymal stem cells that plays crucial role in suture patency ( Zhao et al . , 2015 ) . The aim of this study was to determine the role of RAB23 during intramembranous bone development . Previously , it has not been possible to study skeletal development in RAB23 deficient mice due to their early lethality . Here , we generated RAB23 deficient ( Rab23-/- ) mice that survived until embryonic day ( E ) 18 . 5 , and this allowed us to investigate how RAB23 regulates bone formation . Similar to Carpenter syndrome patients , RAB23 deficient mice exhibited polysyndactyly and multiple craniosynostoses . We show that disruption of Rab23 leads to an upregulation of Pitx2 , Fgf10 and Fgfr1b expression , decreased p38 and enhanced pERK1/2-RUNX2 signaling along with elevated osteoprogenitor proliferation . In addition , Hh signaling was amplified with increased expression of GLI1 . During in vitro culture , inhibition of elevated pERK1/2 normalized osteoprogenitor proliferation , corrected the aberrant GLI1 and RUNX2 expressions , and rescued the lambdoid suture fusion . Our results suggest a novel role for RAB23 as an upstream regulator of both FGF10-pERK1/2 and Hh-GLI1 , and the additional regulation of GLI1 by pERK1/2 , to coordinate the initiation of osteogenesis . 
Inheritance of gene expression states is fundamental for cells to ‘remember’ past events , such as environmental or developmental cues . The conserved Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 ( PRC2 ) maintains epigenetic repression of many genes in animals and plants and modifies chromatin at its targets . Histones modified by PRC2 can be inherited through cell division . However , it remains unclear whether this inheritance can direct long-term memory of individual gene expression states ( cis memory ) or instead if local chromatin states are dictated by the concentrations of diffusible factors ( trans memory ) . By monitoring the expression of two copies of the Arabidopsis Polycomb target gene FLOWERING LOCUS C ( FLC ) in the same plants , we show that one copy can be repressed while the other is active . Furthermore , this ‘mixed’ expression state is inherited through many cell divisions as plants develop . These data demonstrate that epigenetic memory of FLC expression is stored not in trans but in cis .  Epigenetic memory can be stored in the concentrations of diffusible regulatory factors that are maintained through feedback loops ( trans memory ) ( Novick and Weiner , 1957; Ptashne , 2004; Zacharioudakis et al . , 2007 ; Xu et al . , 2009 ) . Alternatively , memory could be stored locally in the chromatin environment of individual genes ( cis memory ) , in the form of DNA methylation or post-translational modifications of histones ( Moazed , 2011 ) . While in both trans and cis memory the chromatin state is inherited , in the former case chromatin responds to the transcriptional state defined by heritable concentrations of the trans-factors , whereas in the latter case it is the local chromatin environment that instructs its own inheritance and is , therefore , the key epigenetic memory element . Whether heritable information can be stored in patterns of histone modifications is a subject of much debate ( Ptashne , 2007; Kaufman and Rando , 2010; Henikoff and Shilatifard , 2011; Petruk et al . , 2012; Gaydos et al . , 2014 ) . Central to this debate is Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) , a key transcriptional regulator in animals and plants . PRC2 catalyses methylation of histone H3 on lysine 27 ( H3K27me ) ( Cao et al . , 2002 ) and mutagenesis experiments have shown that K27 is necessary for PRC2-mediated repression ( Pengelly et al . , 2013 ) . DNA replication poses a significant challenge to histone-modification based memory as patterns of modifications must be faithfully transmitted to daughter DNA strands ( Steffen and Ringrose , 2014 ) . During replication , maternal histones are shared between daughter chromosomes where they re-associate close to their original location ( Radman-Livaja et al . , 2011; Annunziato , 2005 ) . Since PRC2 has affinity for H3K27me3 , it has been proposed that H3K27me3 on inherited histones could recruit PRC2 to daughter DNA strands in order to similarly modify newly incorporated , unmodified histones ( Margueron et al . , 2009 ) . Supporting the hypothesis that modified histones are indeed the key inherited cis memory element , it was recently observed that passage of H3K27-methylated histones to daughter chromosomes can occur in the absence of functional PRC2 ( Gaydos et al . , 2014 ) . Other studies have suggested that Polycomb proteins themselves are maintained locally through DNA replication ( Petruk et al . , 2012; Francis et al . , 2009 ) . These studies provide valuable mechanistic information about how a Polycomb system could store the memory of transcriptional states of individual genes in cis . However , to definitively demonstrate that memory is stored in cis , it is necessary to show that two copies of the same DNA sequence can be independently maintained in different transcriptional states in the same nucleus ( Bonasio et al . , 2010 ) . This has been observed in genomic imprinting and in random X-chromosome inactivation . Since imprinting involves DNA methylation ( Ferguson-Smith , 2011 ) , and X-chromosome inactivation involves chromosome-wide changes in chromatin structure and nuclear positioning ( Gendrel et al . , 2014 ) , it remains an open question whether Polycomb-repressed chromatin at a single gene can store epigenetic memory . Cis memory has also been implicated in random monoallelic expression . However , studies so far have been limited to genes with naturally occurring genetic polymorphisms ( Eckersley-Maslin et al . , 2014; Deng et al . , 2014 ) or are performed on fixed tissues limiting conclusions regarding heritability ( Gendrel et al . , 2014 ) . Importantly , a requirement for chromatin-modifying factors in epigenetic memory does not necessarily imply that memory is itself stored in chromatin . To address the question of whether Polycomb-repressed chromatin at a single gene can instruct its own inheritance and therefore constitutes a cis memory system , we exploited the classic epigenetic process of vernalization in Arabidopsis . Vernalization is the acceleration of flowering following prolonged cold exposure and is mediated by cold-induced epigenetic repression of the Polycomb target gene and floral repressor FLC . FLC repression requires PRC2 but is independent of DNA methylation ( Finnegan et al . , 2005 ) , making it a useful system for studying the cis-memory storage capability of Polycomb at a single gene . In vernalized plants , FLC expression is bistable , with the number of cells in which FLC is stably repressed increasing quantitatively with the duration of prior cold exposure ( Angel et al . , 2011 ) . Cold exposure results in localization of a plant-homeodomain-PRC2 complex ( PHD-PRC2 ) to a small nucleation region within the FLC gene , which leads to locally increased H3K27me3 and co-ordinately decreased H3K36me3 ( Angel et al . , 2011; De Lucia et al . , 2008; Finnegan and Dennis , 2007; Yang et al . , 2014 ) . On return to warm , the PHD-PRC2 complex spreads across the gene leading to high H3K27me3 over the whole locus and stable repression ( Angel et al . , 2011; De Lucia et al . , 2008 ) . After cold , H3K27me3 is present at the FLC promoter and gene body but does not spread to neighbouring genes ( Angel et al . , 2011; Finnegan and Dennis , 2007; Yang et al . , 2014 ) . Polycomb-dependent FLC repression is maintained throughout plant development until it is reset during embryogenesis ( Gendall et al . , 2001; Crevillen et al . , 2014 ) . If FLC transcriptional states are defined by concentrations of diffusible factors ( trans memory ) , then all copies of FLC within a cell should be in the same transcriptional state . On the other hand , if FLC chromatin states instruct their own inheritance ( cis memory ) , then it should be possible for different copies of FLC within a cell to exist in different heritable transcriptional states . 
DnaK/Hsp70 chaperones form oligomers of poorly understood structure and functional significance . Site-specific proteolysis and crosslinking were used to probe the architecture of oligomers formed by the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) Hsp70 , BiP . These were found to consist of adjacent protomers engaging the interdomain linker of one molecule in the substrate binding site of another , attenuating the chaperone function of oligomeric BiP . Native gel electrophoresis revealed a rapidly-modulated reciprocal relationship between the burden of unfolded proteins and BiP oligomers and slower equilibration between oligomers and inactive , covalently-modified BiP . Lumenal ER calcium depletion caused rapid oligomerization of mammalian BiP and a coincidental diminution in substrate binding , pointing to the relative inertness of the oligomers . Thus , equilibration between inactive oligomers and active monomeric BiP is poised to buffer fluctuations in ER unfolded protein load on a rapid timescale attainable neither by inter-conversion of active and covalently-modified BiP nor by the conventional unfolded protein response .  In eukaryotes , the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) processes the vast majority of newly synthesized proteins destined for secretion and membrane insertion . The maturation of ER client proteins entails the chaperone assisted folding of nascent chains and assembly of functional complexes . Protein folding homeostasis in the ER requires that the complement of chaperones match closely the burden of nascent chains: too few chaperones risks misfolding and proteotoxicity ( Balch et al . , 2008 ) , whereas too many chaperones slow down folding , impede cell growth and incur a cost of excessive client protein degradation ( Dorner et al . , 1992; Feder et al . , 1992 ) . The challenge in the ER is especially great , as the compartment experiences wide , physiologically-driven fluctuations in client protein load ( Itoh and Okamoto , 1980; Logothetopoulos and Jain , 1980 ) . But this dynamism also renders the ER a useful window into general principles that maintain protein folding homeostasis . The importance of transcriptional regulation of ER chaperone-encoding genes has long been recognized ( Chang et al . , 1989 ) and the signal transduction pathways that couple unfolded protein stress ( ER stress ) to gene expression—collectively referred to as the unfolded protein response ( UPR ) —have been worked out in some detail ( Walter and Ron , 2011 ) . The inherent latency of this transcriptional program has favored the evolution of an additional strand to the UPR whereby , in animal cells , ER stress is coupled to rapid attenuation of protein synthesis ( Harding et al . , 1999 ) . Whilst translation attenuation is an effective bulwark against misfolding and proteotoxicity , it caps the biosynthetic yield on ER activity ( Trusina et al . , 2008 ) . The inherent limitations and costs of the conventional transcriptional and translational UPR have generated interest in post-translational adaptations with shorter latency that rapidly match chaperone availability to client protein load . One such adaptation , apparently unique to the ER , is the reversible ADP ribosylation and de-ribosylation of the ER Hsp70 chaperone , BiP ( Carlsson and Lazarides , 1983 ) . In its ADP ribosylated form , BiP is locked into an inactive state with low affinity for its substrates ( Freiden et al . , 1992 ) . ADP ribosylation affects residues in BiP that interfere with the allosteric coupling of ATP binding and hydrolysis in BiP's nucleotide binding domain ( NBD ) to the affinity of its substrate binding domain ( SBD ) for unfolded proteins ( Chambers et al . , 2012 ) , thus targeting the basic chaperoning mechanism used by all Hsp70/DnaK family members ( Mayer and Bukau , 2005 ) . A recent study reveals that the same circumstances that promote ADP ribosylation of BiP are also associated with rapidly reversible formation of an ester bond between threonine 366 in the NBD and adenosine monophosphate to yield BiP AMPylation , an inactivation modification ( Ham et al . , 2014 ) . Whilst the interrelation of ADP ribosylation and AMPylation remain to be worked out , covalently modified BiP is understood to represent an inactive buffer that can be drawn upon in time of need , by removal of the modifications , thereby increasing the capacity of the ER to cope with enhanced unfolded protein burden whilst minimizing the cost of over-chaperoning . Indeed , the inter-conversion of ADP ribosylated and AMPylated BiP to the unmodified active form follows a coherent pattern whereby increased client protein load converts the inactive buffer form to the active one and diminished client protein load pushes modification the other way ( Laitusis et al . , 1999; Ham et al . , 2014; Sanyal et al . , 2015 ) . The transitions noted above occur over a time scale of ∼1 hr , allowing for more rapid adaptations . One such potential adaptation entails oligomerization . Oligomerization of BiP , mammalian Hsc70 and bacterial DnaK , has been observed in vitro ( Blond-Elguindi et al . , 1993; Benaroudj et al . , 1995; King et al . , 1995; Schonfeld et al . , 1995; Aprile et al . , 2013 ) and in cells ( Freiden et al . , 1992; Thompson et al . , 2012 ) . The oligomers have attenuated client binding capability and may convert to the more active monomer ( Freiden et al . , 1992; Blond-Elguindi et al . , 1993; Chevalier et al . , 1998; Thompson et al . , 2012; Aprile et al . , 2013 ) , suggesting that they may represent a rapidly accessible , inactive buffer form of chaperone . However , the molecular basis for oligomerization has remained obscure . In recent years it has become apparent that the highly conserved interdomain linker connecting the NBD and SBD plays a crucial role in allosteric regulation of Hsp70 proteins ( Swain et al . , 2007; Kityk et al . , 2012; Qi et al . , 2013 ) . Specifically , the aliphatic side chains of the conserved linker are reversibly buried against the NBD ( in the ATP-bound state of the chaperone ) or exposed to the solvent ( in the ADP-bound state ) mediating key allosteric transitions ( Bertelsen et al . , 2009; Kumar et al . , 2011 ) . Here we report on application of a chemical probe specific to the interdomain linker of BiP and site-specific crosslinking to analyze its disposition in BiP monomers and oligomers . In doing so we have uncovered a mechanism for rapid and reversible BiP oligomerization that inactivates the chaperone to serve as a recoupable storage form . 
Flexible filamentous viruses include economically important plant pathogens . Their viral particles contain several hundred copies of a helically arrayed coat protein ( CP ) protecting a ( + ) ssRNA . We describe here a structure at 3 . 9 Å resolution , from electron cryomicroscopy , of Pepino mosaic virus ( PepMV ) , a representative of the genus Potexvirus ( family Alphaflexiviridae ) . Our results allow modeling of the CP and its interactions with viral RNA . The overall fold of PepMV CP resembles that of nucleoproteins ( NPs ) from the genus Phlebovirus ( family Bunyaviridae ) , a group of enveloped ( - ) ssRNA viruses . The main difference between potexvirus CP and phlebovirus NP is in their C-terminal extensions , which appear to determine the characteristics of the distinct multimeric assemblies – a flexuous , helical rod or a loose ribonucleoprotein . The homology suggests gene transfer between eukaryotic ( + ) and ( - ) ssRNA viruses .  Flexible filamentous viruses are ubiquitous plant pathogens that have an enormous impact in agriculture ( Revers and Garcia , 2015 ) . Their infective particles are non-enveloped and flexible rod-shaped virions ( Kendall et al . , 2008 ) and contain several hundreds of copies of a coat protein ( CP ) arranged in a helical fashion protecting a ssRNA of positive polarity , or ( + ) ssRNA ( Kendall et al . , 2008 ) . They are distributed in families Alphaflexiviridae , Betaflexiviridae , Closteroviridae , and Potyviridae , which have different genomic organizations ( particularly different between Potyviridae and the rest of the groups ) and belong to different superfamilies , but it is thought that their CPs have strong evolutionary relationships ( Koonin et al . , 2015 ) . Structural studies of virions by X-ray fiber diffraction and cryoEM have indeed revealed a common architecture for flexible plant viruses . The filaments are 120-130 Å in diameter , and the CPs are arranged following helical symmetry with slightly less than 9 subunits per turn ( Kendall et al . , 2008 ) . This overall arrangement is shared by Soybean mosaic virus ( SMV ) a potyvirus ( from the family Potyviridae ) , and three different potexviruses ( family Alphaflexiviridae ) , Potato virus X ( PVX ) , Papaya mosaic virus ( PapMV ) , and Narcissus mosaic virus ( NMV ) ( Kendall et al . , 2013 , Yang et al . , 2012 , Kendall et al . , 2008 ) . The flexibility of the virions has limited high-resolution structural studies , and most of the previous data were at moderate resolution . Very recently , the cryoEM structure of Bamboo mosaic virus ( BaMV ) , another potexvirus , was determined at 5 . 6 Å ( DiMaio et al . , 2015 ) , and the CP was modeled based on the atomic structure of a truncated version of the CP from Papaya mosaic virus ( PapMV CP ) ( Yang et al . , 2012 ) . The work revealed that N- and C-terminal extensions of the CP mediate viral polymerization and allow for the flexuous nature of the virions . Pepino mosaic virus ( PepMV ) is another potexvirus which has emerged recently ( Jones et al . , 1980 ) , progressing from endemic to epidemic in tomato crops causing severe economic losses worldwide ( Hanssen and Thomma , 2010 ) . PepMV is transmitted by mechanical contact and virions contain a ( + ) ssRNA of about 6 . 4 kb ( Aguilar et al . , 2002 ) . The PepMV CP is strictly required for cell-to-cell movement of the virus ( Sempere et al . , 2011 ) . We present the cryoEM structure of PepMV virions at 3 . 9 Å of resolution . The near-atomic three-dimensional ( 3D ) map allows for accurate modeling of the CP , the viral RNA , and their interaction . In vivo functional studies of several CP mutants confirm the role of several residues in RNA binding and polymerization . Surprisingly , we have also found a clear structural homology between the CP of flexuous viruses and the NP of the genus Phlebovirus , a group of enveloped viruses with a segmented ( - ) ssRNA genome . The NPs from phleboviruses are associated with the viral genome in loose ribonucleoproteins ( RNPs ) ( Raymond et al . , 2012 ) protected inside an envelope , in which inserted glycoproteins construct an icosahedral shell ( Huiskonen et al . , 2009 , Freiberg et al . , 2008 ) . Despite the divergence of both viral groups , CP from potexviruses and NP from phleboviruses have the same all α-helix fold , and their high similarity suggests a horizontal gene transfer event between these evolutionary distant groups of eukaryotic RNA viruses . 
Antibody binding to cell surface proteins plays a crucial role in immunity , and the location of an epitope can altogether determine the immunological outcome of a host-target interaction . Techniques available today for epitope identification are costly , time-consuming , and unsuited for high-throughput analysis . Fast and efficient screening of epitope location can be useful for the development of therapeutic monoclonal antibodies and vaccines . Cellular morphology typically varies , and antibodies often bind heterogeneously across a cell surface , making traditional particle-averaging strategies challenging for accurate native antibody localization . In the present work , we have developed a method , SiteLoc , for imaging-based molecular localization on cellular surface proteins . Nanometer-scale resolution is achieved through localization in one dimension , namely , the distance from a bound ligand to a reference surface . This is done by using topological image averaging . Our results show that this method is well suited for antibody binding site measurements on native cell surface morphology and that it can be applied to other molecular distance estimations as well .  The location of protein binding sites on cellular surfaces can have wide-ranging implications for various cellular processes , such as immune signalling , cell adhesion , cell migration , and phagocytosis . Antibody binding to pathogen surface proteins plays a crucial role in immunity ( Lu et al . , 2018 ) , and epitope localization affects diverse immunological outcomes , such as antibody neutralizing ability ( Law et al . , 2008; Kwong et al . , 2013; Salinas et al . , 2019; Caoili , 2014; Ivanyi , 2014 ) or autoreactivity ( Caoili , 2014; Cunningham , 2014 ) . Even though monoclonal antibody ( mAb ) treatments have proven to be successful for a wide spectrum of diseases , there are very few monoclonal antibodies clinically available for the treatment of bacterial infections ( Motley et al . , 2019 ) . Developing therapeutic mAbs against infections may require large-scale screening of highly conserved and functional epitopes ( Martín-Galiano and McConnell , 2019 ) . Antibody epitopes are typically identified using crystallography , mutagenesis , or crosslinking coupled mass spectrometry ( Abbott et al . , 2014 ) . As of today , these methods are costly , time-consuming , and unsuitable for high-throughput analysis . Fast and efficient screening of epitope locations can be useful for the development of therapeutic mAbs and vaccines . While averaging methods for nanometer-scale localization on microscopy data exist , these do not work for binding sites on proteins with heterogeneous expression on the cellular surface . Moreover , they are designed for identical ( Szymborska et al . , 2013; Laine et al . , 2015 ) or spherical ( Son et al . , 2020 ) particles and are thereby not fitted for unaltered cells due to the existing biological variation of surface morphology . In the present work , we have developed an imaging-based method for localization of binding sites with nanometer-scale precision . The location of a binding site is determined by calculating the average distance between the ligand channel and a reference signal channel using the averaged fluorescent signal along a cell contour . To assess the performance of this method , we analyse simulated images , demonstrating high accuracy for varying surface expression and morphology . By measuring the height of DNA probes on erythrocyte surfaces , we show that our method can accurately estimate molecular heights on spherical and non-spherical cells . Our presented results with structured illumination microscopy ( SIM ) data achieve an ~10 nm precision certainty . We apply the site localization method to determine known binding site locales on M protein that is unevenly expressed on the bacterial surface of Streptococcus pyogenes . Additionally , our method yields viable results when we perform site localization on widefield images with and without deconvolution . To sum up , our site localization method enables rapid determination of binding sites without the need for synthetic modification of cell surface morphology . 
Systemic vascular pressure in vertebrates is regulated by a range of factors: one key element of control is peripheral resistance in tissue capillary beds . Many aspects of the relationship between central control of vascular flow and peripheral resistance are unclear . An important example of this is the relationship between hypoxic response in individual tissues , and the effect that response has on systemic cardiovascular adaptation to oxygen deprivation . We show here how hypoxic response via the HIF transcription factors in one large vascular bed , that underlying the skin , influences cardiovascular response to hypoxia in mice . We show that the response of the skin to hypoxia feeds back on a wide range of cardiovascular parameters , including heart rate , arterial pressures , and body temperature . These data represent the first demonstration of a dynamic role for oxygen sensing in a peripheral tissue directly modifying cardiovascular response to the challenge of hypoxia .  Vertebrates confront the world chiefly through the skin . As a reflection of how different vertebrates adapt to the environment , skin structure varies to a significant degree from one vertebrate class to another , and even within classes . One of the key differences in skin function found amongst vertebrates is the degree to which it responds to environmental variations; in particular , the extent to which these changes in turn affect systemic organismal physiology . Mammalian skin is amongst the most complex of all the vertebrate forms of skin . It also varies significantly in its form in the different orders of mammalia , with variations chiefly following adaptations to the external environment . A key physiological challenge faced by most multicellular organisms is variation in oxygen supply . This is a common challenge to animals that obtain their oxygen from surrounding water , particularly those that live in fresh water; it can apply also to mammals at high altitudes , or during movement into a small den or confined space . Hypoxia also occurs in various tissues if there are high levels of oxygen demand , e . g . , in skeletal muscle during exercise . Work undertaken over the last 50 years has shown that acute systemic hypoxia in mice , rats , rabbits , chickens , dogs , sheep and humans causes acute tachycardia and hypertension ( Korner and Edwards , 1960; Butler , 1967; Yasuma and Hayano , 2000; Campen et al . , 2004; Campen et al . , 2005; Walsh and Marshall , 2006; Heinonen et al . , 2016; Giussani et al . , 1993; Fletcher , 2000 ) . Prolonged hypobaric hypoxia in humans has also been shown to cause tachycardia and hypertension ( these studies have primarily been undertaken in high altitude environments or models thereof ) ( Schultz et al . , 2014; Calbet , 2003; Naeije , 2010; Hainsworth et al . , 2007; Vogel and Harris , 1967 ) . The skin has an extensive vasculature , which is known to be responsive to shifts in oxygen availability ( Durand et al . , 1969; Weil et al . , 1969; Kuwahira et al . , 1993; Minson , 2003 ) . Keratinocytes in low oxygen release nitric oxide to increase blood flow and thereby improve perfusion ( Cowburn et al . , 2013; Pucci et al . , 2012 ) . Of interest , it has been shown that in both rodents and humans the basal epidermis is hypoxic relative to the underlying dermal tissue , and displays constitutive stabilisation of hypoxia inducible transcription factor- ( HIF ) α proteins ( Cowburn et al . , 2013; Cowburn et al . , 2014; Peyssonnaux et al . , 2008; Boutin et al . , 2008 ) . HIF transcription factors initiate the transcription of multiple genes involved in oxygen homeostasis , including a number that regulate vascularisation and metabolism ( Semenza , 2003; Semenza , 2009; Pouysségur et al . , 2006; Formenti et al . , 2010; Djagaeva and Doronkin , 2010; Hubbi et al . , 2014 ) . We have previously shown that a dichotomous regulation of nitric oxide is conferred by HIF-1α and HIF-2α regulation of the NOS2 and arginase genes ( Semenza , 2003; Jung et al . , 2000 ) and have now documented this in a number of tissues and cell types ( Cowburn et al . , 2013; Takeda et al . , 2010; Branco-Price et al . , 2012; Cowburn et al . , 2016 ) . The HIF-1α/NOS2 and HIF-2α/arginase pathways strongly influence tissue L-arginine consumption and NO generation ( Cowburn et al . , 2013; Takeda et al . , 2010; Branco-Price et al . , 2012 ) . We have also shown that keratinocyte selective deletion of HIF-1α reduces epidermal NO levels , whereas loss of HIF-2α suppresses arginase expression/activity , increasing local concentrations of NO ( Cowburn et al . , 2013 ) . Hence , in murine skin , cutaneous NO levels are determined by differential HIFα isoform expression which affect both local vascular resistance and systemic blood pressure . Little is known , however , concerning how a localized tissue response to hypoxia affects the cardiovascular system more generally . The literature on the response of animals to systemic hypoxia and its cardiovascular effects is limited almost exclusively to studies under anaesthesia . Hence , almost all previous studies have focused on the first ten minutes of the hypoxic response . Radio-telemetry in non-anesthetised non-restrained animals allows a more rigorous evaluation of the changes in hemodynamic variables during the acclimation to environmental hypoxia ( Kawaguchi et al . , 2005 ) . The work described here demonstrates for the first time that systemic hypoxia induces a tri-modal response: with an initial tachycardia and hypertensive phase that lasts approximately 10 min , followed by an immediate and profound drop in heart rate and blood pressure that can last as long as 24 hr , followed by a recovery to close to a normoxic state . In this context , we show that peripheral resistance and oxygen sensing , in this case in the skin , plays an essential role in this systemic cardiovascular response . These data demonstrate that peripheral tissues can play a fundamental role in cardiovascular adaptation to hypoxia . 
We describe refinements in optogenetic methods for circuit mapping that enable measurements of functional synaptic connectivity with single-neuron resolution . By expanding a two-photon beam in the imaging plane using the temporal focusing method and restricting channelrhodopsin to the soma and proximal dendrites , we are able to reliably evoke action potentials in individual neurons , verify spike generation with GCaMP6s , and determine the presence or absence of synaptic connections with patch-clamp electrophysiological recording .  The synaptic organization of individual neurons into circuits is the physiological basis for the interpretation of sensory input and production of behavioral responses . Understanding the precise patterns of connectivity among the distinct types of neurons that comprise neural circuits is critical for elucidating circuit function and ultimately requires methods that can map functional connectivity with single-cell resolution . Optical activation of single neurons using two-photon excitation of caged neurotransmitters or optogenetic probes such as channelrhodopsin ( ChR2 ) provides a powerful approach for assessing the synaptic connections of single neurons . In particular , optogenetic mapping utilizing ChR2 and the rapidly expanding family of opsin variants have increased the flexibility and precision of mapping paradigms . Variations in the single-channel properties of the opsins can be exploited to generate rapid action potential trains or sustained depolarizations ( Mattis et al . , 2012 ) , and new red-shifted variants have facilitated excitation deeper in tissue and have enabled simultaneous optical control of two distinct neuronal populations ( Klapoetke et al . , 2014; Lin et al . , 2013; Yizhar et al . , 2011 ) . In addition , genetic restriction of opsin expression using transgenic mouse lines enhances the ability to activate and assess the connectivity of specific cell types . Despite the great potential of optogenetics for mapping the synaptic connections of single neurons , there are multiple issues that have limited its effectiveness . First , two-photon activation of single neurons with ChR2 is complicated by its kinetics and low single-channel conductance . A diffraction-limited spot does not activate sufficient channels simultaneously to reliably bring neurons expressing ChR2 to action potential threshold . Several solutions have been implemented to address this . Rapid scanning of a diffraction-limited two-photon excitation spot across an opsin-expressing cell allows sufficient temporal integration to generate action potentials ( Packer et al . , 2012; Prakash et al . , 2012; Rickgauer and Tank , 2009 ) . Alternatively , scanless two-photon excitation by temporal focusing ( Oron et al . , 2005; Zhu et al . , 2005 ) increases the number of simultaneously excited opsin molecules by expanding the beam in the imaging plane without sacrificing the optical sectioning of multiphoton microscopy ( Andrasfalvy et al . , 2010; Losonczy et al . , 2010; Papagiakoumou et al . , 2010; Rickgauer et al . , 2014 ) . The implementation of diffractive optical elements ( Fino and Yuste , 2011; Nikolenko et al . , 2007; Packer and Yuste , 2011 ) or spatial light modulators ( Dal Maschio et al . , 2010; Nikolenko et al . , 2008; Packer et al . , 2012 , 2015; Papagiakoumou et al . , 2010 , 2009 , 2008 ) has also allowed for more complicated excitation profiles that encompass multiple spots around a cell , ensembles of neurons , or particular branches of dendritic trees . While these approaches have made it possible to provide sufficient two-photon illumination to reliably drive action potentials , the ability to use optogenetic stimulation to selectively target single neurons remains challenging because the opsins are expressed throughout the dendritic and axon terminal fields , generating a potential confounding source of light-induced electrical responses . For example , it can be difficult to know whether a recorded electrophysiological event is due to stimulation of a presynaptic cell or 'direct' stimulation of a portion of the recorded cell’s dendritic arbor . Although these possibilities can be distinguished by their kinetics , large amplitude direct responses may obscure simultaneous smaller synaptic events . This essentially leaves an indeterminate region of any circuit 'map' coinciding with the dendritic arbors of the recorded neuron , which can extend for 200 µm or more around the soma . In addition , the optogenetic approach could be compromised by unintended activation of fibers of passage or local axonal boutons , which are known to respond to temporal focusing of two-photon excitation ( Andrasfalvy et al . , 2010; Losonczy et al . , 2010 ) . Exclusion of opsins from axonal compartments has previously been achieved by fusing the opsin with targeting domains that bind to myosin Va motors necessary for transporting proteins into dendrites; one such motif from melanophilin is sufficient to exclude ChR2 from axons and enhance the resolution of neural circuit maps ( Lewis et al . , 2009 ) . The resulting ChR2 distribution , however , remains throughout the dendritic tree and thus does not solve the problem of undesired direct activation of a neuron’s processes while trying to stimulate other neurons in close proximity . To overcome these limitations , we combined temporal focusing with spatial confinement of ChR2 expression to the neuronal cell body and proximal dendrites . Our alternative targeting approach took advantage of the Kv2 . 1 potassium channel , which has a particularly unique localization to clusters at the neuronal soma and proximal dendrites ( Trimmer , 1991 ) achieved through a 66-amino acid domain in its C-terminus ( Lim et al . , 2000 ) that drives its association with myosin IIb and specific post-Golgi transport vesicles destined for the somatic compartment ( Jensen et al . , 2014 ) . Furthermore , this targeting signal is sufficient to alter ChR2 trafficking in retinal ganglion cells ( Wu et al . , 2013 ) . We have employed this approach to target ChR2 to the soma and proximal dendrites of neurons in somatosensory cortex and added a nuclear fluorescent tag to identify ChR2-expressing neurons for targeting a two-photon temporal focused mapping beam . We combined this soma-targeted ChR2 with verification of successful action potential generation with a genetically encoded calcium indicator in our mapping protocol . Our approach allows robust and precise activation of neurons in brain slices for the construction of functional synaptic connectivity maps with single-cell resolution without loss of information about local connections in the region of the dendritic arbor of the recorded neuron or inadvertent activation of axons . 
The mode of interaction of transcription factors ( TFs ) on eukaryotic genomes remains a matter of debate . Single-molecule data in living cells for the TFs Sox2 and Oct4 were previously interpreted as evidence of ordered assembly on DNA . However , the quantity that was calculated does not determine binding order but , rather , energy expenditure away from thermodynamic equilibrium . Here , we undertake a rigorous biophysical analysis which leads to the concept of reciprocity . The single-molecule data imply that Sox2 and Oct4 exhibit negative reciprocity , with expression of Sox2 increasing Oct4’s genomic binding but expression of Oct4 decreasing Sox2’s binding . Models show that negative reciprocity can arise either from energy expenditure or from a mixture of positive and negative cooperativity at distinct genomic loci . Both possibilities imply unexpected complexity in how TFs interact on DNA , for which single-molecule methods provide novel detection capabilities .  The transcription factors ( TFs ) Sox2 and Oct4 work in concert to specify the earliest lineages in the mammalian embryo ( Pesce and Schöler , 2001; Avilion et al . , 2003 ) . Chen et al . previously undertook an extensive single-molecule analysis of the dynamics of Sox2 and Oct4 in living cells to determine how these TFs found their cognate sites on DNA ( Chen et al . , 2014 ) . One of their main conclusions was a preferred order of assembly on DNA , with binding of Sox2 followed by Oct4 in approximately 75% of instances ( Figure 1A ) . They justified this claim by determining the ratio , ( 1 ) R=K1⁢K3K2⁢K4 , where the values of the Ki were obtained directly from their single-molecule data . Chen et al . interpreted each Ki in terms of the model in Figure 1A , as the ratio of the binding rate to the unbinding rate of the corresponding transition ( we use a different convention here to that actually followed by Chen et al . ; see below ) . They asserted that R was the ratio of the probability of taking the upper pathway in Figure 1A , in which Sox2 binds first , to the probability of taking the lower pathway , in which Oct4 binds first . Their data showed that R=3 . 05 , leading to the binding-order frequency shown in Figure 1A and the claim of ordered assembly . However , the quantity R in Equation 1 is not the probability ratio of the two binding pathways . This ratio can be calculated , as explained below , but what R determines instead is the ‘cycle condition’ for the model in Figure 1A . If this model is assumed to be at thermodynamic equilibrium , so that no external sources of energy are being consumed , then , as a matter of fundamental physics , R=1 . Under the assumptions made by Chen et al . , the value R=3 . 05 immediately implies the presence of energy-expending mechanisms acting ‘behind the scenes’ that are maintaining the system described by Figure 1A away from thermodynamic equilibrium . The role of energy expenditure in regulating eukaryotic genes is especially interesting . One of the most striking differences between eukaryotic genomes and eubacterial ones is the presence of multiple energy-expending mechanisms , which reorganise chromatin , remodel nucleosomes and post-translationally modify regulators . Although much is known about the molecular components involved in such energy transduction , the functional significance of energy expenditure has been slow to emerge . There is debate , for instance , as to whether pioneer TFs , like Sox2 and Oct4 , can open chromatin without relying on external sources of energy ( Cirillo et al . , 2002; Iwafuchi-Doi and Zaret , 2016 ) or whether they recruit ATP-dependent chromatin remodellers to undertake this ( Voss et al . , 2011; Swinstead et al . , 2016; Zaret et al . , 2016 ) . Physics provides fundamental insight into the significance of energy expenditure . As first pointed out by Hopfield for replication , transcription and translation , if the underlying biochemical system is operating at thermodynamic equilibrium , the cycle condition ( R=1 ) sets a fundamental limit below which the error rate cannot be reduced ( Hopfield , 1974 ) . This limit is much higher than the very low error rates observed in practice and Hopfield introduced kinetic proofreading as an energy-expending mechanism which could account for this enhanced functionality . More recently , we have identified the analogous ‘Hopfield barrier’ for sharpness in gene regulation and suggested that energy expenditure may be implicated in the sharp response of early developmental genes ( Estrada et al . , 2016 ) . From a broader viewpoint , following the energy may be a powerful strategy for making functional sense of the molecular complexity underlying eukaryotic gene regulation . Given the significance of energy expenditure , it is important to examine further the calculation of R made by Chen et al . This paper is devoted to revisiting their assumptions and reanalysing their data on a rigorous biophysical foundation . In the remainder of this Introduction , we describe in informal language the path that we took and the novel insights that emerged about the interaction of Sox2 and Oct4 on the genome . As an initial check , we asked how much significance could be given to the estimate by Chen et al . that R>1 . Based on a conservative statistical analysis of their data ( Materials and methods ) , the probability that R≤1 is less than 10−9 , so their estimate is highly significant . As for the data themselves , these were acquired by fluorescently labeling each TF and using a variety of powerful single-molecule techniques to follow individual TFs within the nuclei of living cells . These data suggest that the TF moves back and forth between two distinct states , one in which it is specifically bound to sites on DNA and one in which it is not specifically bound . ( The latter state is potentially complicated , involving both diffusion and non-specific binding to DNA . ) This conclusion is supported by a detailed biophysical analysis of the measurement process and the movement of TF molecules within the nucleus . We have nothing to say about this analysis of TF behavior and take it as our starting point . Our concern is with drawing conclusions about what happens on DNA . This implies a fundamental shift of viewpoint , from that of the TF , which is being directly observed , to that of the DNA , which is not . This shift requires two ingredients . The first is a model of what happens on DNA and the second is a method for converting information about TF behavior into information about DNA behavior . For the first , Chen et al . adopted the model in Figure 1A . For the second , they assumed that the rates at which the TF moved from being specifically bound to not being specifically bound , and vice versa , as determined from their single-molecule data , were ‘good estimates’ for the rates at which the TF unbound from , and bound to , DNA , respectively , ( Chen et al . , 2014 , page S7 ) . This is correct for the unbinding rate but , as we will explain in more detail below , it is not correct for the binding rate . What the TF ‘sees’ when it specifically binds to DNA is not the same as what the DNA ‘sees’ when it becomes specifically bound . It is necessary to develop a rigorous procedure for converting between the TF viewpoint and the DNA viewpoint . This is the first step in our analysis and it may be broadly useful for other studies . From now on , it will be important to distinguish between the TF viewpoint and the DNA viewpoint . We will use κi for the numbers which Chen et al . calculated from the TF viewpoint using their single-molecule data . Here , i=1 , 2 , 3 , 4 is the index of the corresponding binding transition in Figure 1A . We will use ρ for the corresponding ratio in Equation 1 , ( 2 ) ρ=κ1⁢κ3κ2⁢κ4 . To move from the TF to the DNA viewpoint , Chen et al . assumed that Ki=κi , so that R=ρ . As pointed out above , this is not correct . We will determine the correct relationship between κi and quantities like Ki which arise from the DNA viewpoint . This will allow us to interpret the value ρ=3 . 05 which Chen et al . calculated in terms of what happens on DNA . We will therefore largely be concerned with ρ and Equation 2 and will refer to R and Equation 1 only in the context of the model in Figure 1A . The DNA viewpoint model adopted by Chen et al . involves the interplay between two TFs , Sox2 and Oct4 ( Figure 1A ) . However , their single-molecule techniques only permit one TF to be observed at a time . They therefore used two cell lines , in each of which one of the TFs was fluorescently labeled and measured while the other TF was inducibly expressed . The quantities κ1 , κ2 , κ3 and κ4 in Equation 2 were determined from four independent experiments in these two cell lines . This is an interesting strategy whose data provide unexpected biological insights , as we show below . However , it also raises two further difficulties with the analysis made by Chen et al . First , the biological context is no longer accurately described by the model in Figure 1A . For one thing , the concentrations of the TFs , which determine their rates of binding to DNA , will differ between the two cell lines and this is not accommodated by Figure 1A . Second , Chen et al . assumed that when the second TF was inducibly expressed its binding sites were saturated . This was an oversimplification . We undertook a more careful analysis to address these issues . We formulated a ‘single-locus’ model that is derived from Figure 1A and which accommodates the experimental context . ( The significance of the model name will become clear below . ) This model yields an interpretation of the κi for which we can ask whether ρ in Equation 2 , can satisfy ρ≠1 at thermodynamic equilibrium . The answer is yes . For instance , if there is sufficient cooperativity in binding between Sox2 and Oct4 , this could yield ρ≠1 even at equilibrium . Hence , under the single-locus model , ρ in Equation 2 does not offer evidence for energy expenditure behind the scenes , as implied for R in Equation 1 under the assumptions made by Chen et al . However , the single-locus model reveals something further , which leads us to introduce the concept of ‘reciprocity’ . This is a quantitative measure of how two TFs influence each other’s genomic binding . The data acquired by Chen et al . show that Sox2 and Oct4 exhibit negative reciprocity , which means , in this case , that the fractional binding of Sox2 ( ie: the proportion of Sox2-binding sites occupied by Sox2 ) decreases when Oct4 is induced but the fractional binding of Oct4 increases when Sox2 is induced . The statistical significance of negative reciprocity is not as dramatic as for ρ>1—the probability that the reciprocity is not negative is 2 × 10−2—but this remains significant enough to require further analysis ( Materials and methods ) . We find that the single-locus model cannot exhibit negative reciprocity at thermodynamic equilibrium but it can do so if the model is away from equilibrium . Hence , on the basis of this model , but by considering reciprocity rather than ρ , the data of Chen et al . do provide evidence for energy expenditure behind the scenes . But there is a further , more subtle problem . Sox2 and Oct4 bind at many loci in the genome , with widely differing strengths and cooperativities . Figure 1A and the single-locus model derived from it represent some kind of ‘average’ view of the underlying genomic diversity . While it is clear how to average a collection of numbers associated to a series of genomic loci , it is much less clear how to average a collection of models . The mathematical legitimacy of such procedures has hardly been studied . We therefore considered a more general ‘genomic-diversity’ model , which accommodates two types of loci at which Sox2 and Oct4 can bind with different strengths and cooperativities . We find that if both kinds of loci exhibit positive cooperativity or both exhibit negative cooperativity , then the reciprocity remains positive . However , negative reciprocity can now arise in two ways . First , if the model is away from thermodynamic equilibrium due to energy expenditure behind the scenes and , second , if the model is at equilibrium but the loci exhibit mixed cooperativities , with one kind of locus being positive and the other kind being negative , so that Sox2 and Oct4 both help and hinder each other in binding across the genome . The available data do not distinguish between these two non-exclusive possibilities , either of which could account for the data of Chen et al . Evidence of mixed cooperativity across the genome or of energy expenditure has not previously been found in living cells and suggests unexpected complexity ‘behind the scenes’ in how Sox2 and Oct4 interact on DNA . The single-molecule methods of Chen et al . offer exciting capabilities for unravelling such mechanisms . Two further considerations are important to the broader context of the work described here . First , models are always necessary to draw conclusions from data and the conclusions drawn are thereby contingent on the assumptions underlying those models . These assumptions are subject to interpretation and judgement . This is unavoidable but not always appreciated and we review the implications further in the Discussion . Second , in contrast to model assumptions , it is a matter of fundamental physics that R in Equation 1 does not determine binding order for the model in Figure 1A . There are no assumptions or interpretations under which R could do so . Furthermore , what R does determine is a matter of substantial interest , which is whether or not the model in Figure 1A is away from thermodynamic equilibrium . That these issues have gone unnoticed suggests that the biophysical foundations of gene regulation are not well understood . Indeed , these foundations conceal many subtleties . The cycle condition at thermodynamic equilibrium , also known as ‘detailed balance’ or ‘microscopic reversibility’ , cannot be derived from classical thermodynamics , in which the concept of thermodynamic equilibrium was first formulated . It rests , instead , on the time-reversal symmetry of the laws of physics ( Tolman , 1938; Mahan , 1975 ) . As for what can happen away from thermodynamic equilibrium , such as the emergence of life , that remains a largely unsolved problem of physics ( Laughlin et al . , 2000; Ornes , 2017 ) . If these subtleties reinforce the importance of ‘following the energy’ , they also make clear how essential the biophysical foundations are to that endeavour . Accordingly , we begin with a gentle overview of the foundations . We then build on this to explain the results described above . We have tried to bring out the logic behind the calculations and to lighten the mathematical details as far as possible , relegating many of these to the Materials and methods . We hope in this way to encourage a more rigorous approach to thinking about gene regulation . 
Detecting pathogens and mounting immune responses upon infection is crucial for animal health . However , these responses come at a high metabolic price ( McKean and Lazzaro , 2011 , Kominsky et al . , 2010 ) , and avoiding pathogens before infection may be advantageous . The bacterial endotoxins lipopolysaccharides ( LPS ) are important immune system infection cues ( Abbas et al . , 2014 ) , but it remains unknown whether animals possess sensory mechanisms to detect them prior to infection . Here we show that Drosophila melanogaster display strong aversive responses to LPS and that gustatory neurons expressing Gr66a bitter receptors mediate avoidance of LPS in feeding and egg laying assays . We found the expression of the chemosensory cation channel dTRPA1 in these cells to be necessary and sufficient for LPS avoidance . Furthermore , LPS stimulates Drosophila neurons in a TRPA1-dependent manner and activates exogenous dTRPA1 channels in human cells . Our findings demonstrate that flies detect bacterial endotoxins via a gustatory pathway through TRPA1 activation as conserved molecular mechanism .  In the past decade , increasing attention has been paid to the interactions between the immune and nervous systems ( McMahon et al . , 2015 ) . In particular , there is evidence that sensory neurons can directly detect bacterial components as potentially damaging stimuli , and initiate acute inflammatory and nocifensive responses ( Chiu et al . , 2013; Meseguer et al . , 2014 ) . It has been shown that the Gram-negative bacterial wall component LPS induces hygienic grooming in Drosophila , an important behavioral defense against pathogens , via contact chemosensation ( Yanagawa et al . , 2014 ) . Thus , LPS may represent important sensory cues of food contamination with Gram-negative bacteria . To test whether LPS can be perceived by flies during food ingestion we used a binary food choice assay ( Isono and Morita , 2010 ) ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1A ) . We found that control flies displayed significant avoidance towards food supplemented with LPS ( Figure 1A and Figure 1—figure supplement 1B ) . Because LPS is non-volatile we determined if this avoidance is mediated by gustatory neurons known to detect aversive compounds ( Gr66a ) ( Marella et al . , 2006 ) . Blocking neurotransmission in these neurons by expressing the light chain of tetanus toxin ( TNT ) abolished avoidance of LPS ( Figure 1B ) , indicating that flies can detect LPS through a gustatory mechanism . 10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 003Figure 1 . Gustatory dTrpA1-dependent avoidance of LPS in Drosophila melanogaster . ( A , C ) Preference index ( PI ) of control CS10w1118 ( A ) and dTrpA1-deficient ( C ) male flies for control food over LPS-supplemented food . PI was calculated for the consumption of the control solution mixed with the color of the corresponding data symbol ( n ≥ 6 ) . ( B ) PI for control food of Gr66a>TNT flies and in the corresponding driver-only and responder-only control flies ( n ≥ 6 ) . ( D ) PI for control food of Gr66a>dTrpA1 RNAi flies ( n ≥ 4–8 ) . ( E ) Rescue of LPS avoidance in dTrpA11/dTrpA1ins; dTrpA1>dTrpA1 and dTrpA11/dTrpA1ins; Gr66a>dTrpA1-A/B flies ( n ≥ 5 ) . *P < 0 . 05; **P < 0 . 01; ***P < 0 . 001; ‘ns’ , P > 0 . 05 ( two-tailed Mann-Whitney U test ) . # , statistically significant differences from the no-preference zero level ( two-tailed t test ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . dTrpA1-dependent aversion to LPS in Drosophila . ( A ) Left , microtiter plate used for the binary food choice test . Right after feeding , flies were visually inspected for abdomen color . ( B ) Female control CS10w1118 flies avoid food supplemented with LPS in a binary food choice assay . **P < 0 . 01 ( two-tailed Mann-Whitney U test ) . # , statistically significant differences from the no-preference zero level ( two-tailed t test ) . ( C ) Trans-heterozygote dTrpA1 mutants do not avoid food supplemented with LPS in a binary food choice assay . ‘ns’ , no statistically significant difference , P > 0 . 05 ( two-tailed Mann-Whitney U test ) . ( D ) Effect of silencing dTrpA1 using two independent RNA-interference lines ( dTrpA1 RNAi1 and dTrpA1 RNAi2 ) on the preference index ( PI ) determined for ingestion of control food over LPS-supplemented food . The driver-only ( NSybGal4/+ ) and responder-only ( dTrpA1 RNAi1/+ and dTrpA1 RNAi2/+ ) controls are shown for comparison . **P < 0 . 01 ( two-tailed Mann-Whitney U test ) and # , statistically significant difference from the no-preference zero level ( P < 0 . 05 , two-tailed t test ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 004 A subset of Gr66a neurons innervating the labral sense organ and the labellum express TRPA1 ( Kim et al . , 2010; Kang et al . , 2011 ) , a chemosensory cation channel ( Story et al . , 2003; Nilius et al . , 2012; Zygmunt and Högestätt , 2014 ) that mediates acute nocifensive responses to LPS in mice ( Meseguer et al . , 2014 ) and avoidance of bitter and noxious compounds in Drosophila ( Kim et al . , 2010; Kang et al . , 2010; Du et al . , 2015 ) . We tested whether TRPA1 mediates gustatory avoidance of LPS in flies . We found that loss of dTrpA1 ( w1118;dTrpA11 , Figure 1C and dTrpA11/dTrpA1ins , Figure 1—figure supplement 1C ) and pan-neuronal dTrpA1 knockdown by two independent RNAi lines ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1D ) lead to impaired avoidance of LPS . Therefore , neuronal expression of dTrpA1 is required for LPS avoidance . Furthermore , Gr66a-specific knockdown of dTrpA1 abolished the LPS-induced behavior ( Figure 1D ) , and restoration of dTrpA1 expression using either of two different dTrpA1 isoforms ( A and B ) in the entire dTrpA1 pattern or only in Gr66a gustatory neurons of dTrpA11/dTrpA1ins flies rescued the avoidance of LPS ( Figure 1E ) . Female flies use gustatory detection of non-volatile compounds via Gr66a neurons to select oviposition sites ( Joseph and Heberlein , 2012 ) . In a binary oviposition choice assay control females showed preference for control food over food supplemented with LPS ( Figure 2A ) . This behavior was lost in dTrpA1-/- flies ( Figure 2A ) , upon silencing Gr66a-expressing neurons ( Figure 2B ) , and in Gr66a-specific dTrpA1 knockdown flies ( Figure 2C ) . Altogether , these data show that LPS is avoided during feeding and oviposition and that dTrpA1 expression in bitter-sensing gustatory neurons is necessary and sufficient for LPS avoidance . These data indicate that a TRPA1-dependent mechanism of avoidance of LPS may serve flies to prevent infection with Gram-negative bacteria . Indeed , we found that control animals , but not dTrpA1-/- mutants , preferred laying eggs on control food , rather than on food contaminated with E . coli ( Figure 2D ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 005Figure 2 . dTrpA1 expression in gustatory neurons is required for avoidance of LPS during oviposition . ( A ) Preference index for oviposition in control food of wild type versus dTrpA1-/- flies ( n ≥ 5 ) . ( B ) Oviposition preference of Gr66a>TNT flies ( n ≥ 6 ) . ( C ) Oviposition preference of Gr66a>dTrpA1 RNAi flies ( n ≥ 6 ) . ( D ) Oviposition preference of wild type versus dTrpA1-/- flies in presence of E . coli . ( n ≥ 8 ) *P < 0 . 05; **P < 0 . 01; ***P < 0 . 001 ( two-tailed Mann-Whitney U test ) . # , statistically significant differences from the no-preference zero level ( two-tailed t test ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 005 dTRPA1 is expressed in the mouthpart in a subset of gustatory neurons in the esophagus ( Figure 3A , B and Kang et al . , 2010 ) and in a few neurons in the labellum that also express Gr66a ( data not shown and Kang et al . , 2011 ) . However , no co-localization between dTrpA1 and Gr66a was observed in the leg ( Figure 3—figure supplement 1 ) . To test whether avoidance of LPS is mediated by labellar or esophageal chemosensors we performed a proboscis extension reflex ( PER ) assay in wild type animals . LPS did not inhibit PER ( Figure 3—figure supplement 2 ) , suggesting that avoidance of LPS is not mediated by the labellar neurons , but by the gustatory neurons of the esophagus . We attempted to record neuronal responses in these neurons using flies expressing the genetically encoded Ca2+ indicator GCaMP6m in Gr66a neurons but Ca2+ imaging access to these neurons proved impossible in our assays . Next , we attempted direct brain stimulation . All preparations ( 5/5 ) responded robustly to the application of the dTRPA1 agonist allyl isothiocyanate ( AITC ) or the classical bitter compound caffeine , indicating that they were healthy . However , application of LPS gave varying results ( small responses in 40% ( 2/5 ) of the flies; data not shown ) precluding definitive conclusions . Therefore , in order to further test whether dTRPA1 mediates responses to LPS in vivo we monitored intracellular Ca2+ dynamics in the ventral nerve cord of larvae , a preparation that allows better accessibility of chemical stimuli . Application of LPS or the dTRPA1 agonist allyl isothiocyanate ( AITC ) induced robust Ca2+ responses , effects that were strongly reduced by incubation with the TRPA1 inhibitor HC030031 ( Figure 4—figure supplement 1 ) . In contrast , HC030031 did not affect the responses to a depolarizing solution containing high K+ concentration . 10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 006Figure 3 . dTrpA1 is expressed in a subset of Gr66a-expressing neurons that can be directly stimulated by LPS . ( A ) Immunofluorescence analysis of Gr66a-IRES-GFP , UAS-RFP;dTrpA1Gal4 adult proboscis . Anti-GFP immunohistochemistry ( in green in the Merge panel ) labels taste neurons while anti-RFP ( in red in the Merge panel ) labels dTrpA1-expressing cells . Scale bar = 50 μm . ( B ) High magnification image of esophageal neurons expressing Gr66a and TrpA1 . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 00610 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 007Figure 3—figure supplement 1 . dTRPA1 is not expressed in tarsal Gr66a-expressing neurons . Immunofluorescence analysis of Gr66a-IRES-GFP , UAS-RFP;dTrpA1Gal4 fly legs . Anti-GFP immunohistochemistry labels taste neurons ( in Green in the Merge panel ) while anti-RFP labels dTrpA1-expressing cells ( In Red in the Merge panel ) . Nuclei are stained with DAPI ( in Blue in the Merge panel ) As shown in panels A and B there are different clusters of Gr66a-expressing neurons present in the different leg segments . ( C ) Higher magnification image . As shown in panel C we could not detect RFP expression in any of the GFP-expressing cells . Scale bar = 25 μm . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 00710 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 008Figure 3—figure supplement 2 . LPS does not alter the proboscis extension reflex . Proboscis extension reflex ( PER ) to 100 mM sucrose alone or mixed with 1 mg/ml LPS . The sucrose has been offered both before and after LPS . The graphs show the frequency of extension as mean of 19 animals . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 008 To test the role of TRPA1 in neuronal responses to LPS at the cellular level we examined primary cultures of larva brain neurons ( Figure 4—figure supplement 2 , Harzer et al . , 2013 ) expressing the Ca2+ indicator GCaMP5 under the control of dTrpA1Gal4 . LPS ( 30 µg/ml ) reversibly stimulated more than 40% of neurons isolated from control larvae ( 122/289 ) , and 80% of these were also activated by the dTRPA1 agonist N-ethyl maleimide ( NEM , 300 µM ) ( Kim and Cavanaugh , 2007 ) ( Figure 4A , B ) . Notably , the proportion of neurons responding to both agents was strongly reduced in cultures derived from dTrpA11 null animals ( 20/153 , P < 10–4 , Fisher exact test ) , as well as by pharmacological inhibition of dTRPA1 with HC030031 in neurons isolated from control animals ( 4/32 , P < 10–3 , Fisher exact test ) . Intriguingly , the responses to LPS or NEM were not fully abolished by genetic or pharmacological ablation of dTRPA1 . This suggests that dTRPA1 mediates some , though not all , Ca2+ responses of larva brain neurons to these compounds . To verify this indication in other experimental settings we evaluated the responses of cells isolated from brains of wild type larvae using the ratiometric Ca2+ indicator Fura2 , and AITC as reference TRPA1 agonist . Application of LPS ( 60 µg/ml ) reversibly stimulated more than 70% ( 39/54 ) of neurons isolated from control larvae ( Figure 4—figure supplement 3A , E , F ) . A large proportion of LPS-sensitive neurons ( 23/39 , 59% ) were also activated by 100 µM AITC ( Figure 4—figure supplement 3A , E ) , which indicates that LPS stimulates cells functionally expressing dTRPA1 channels . No Ca2+ response was observed when LPS was applied in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ ( 0/14 , P < 10–4 , Fisher exact test; Figure 4—figure supplement 3B , E , F ) . This indicates that LPS-induced responses result from Ca2+ influx through channels in the plasma membrane , rather than from release from intracellular stores . To directly assess whether LPS induces neuronal responses through the activation of dTRPA1 , we tested its effects on wild type neurons in the presence of HC030031 ( Figure 4—figure supplement 3C ) . In these experiments , LPS-induced responses were significantly less frequent ( 9/32 , 28% , P < 10–3 , Fisher exact test , Figure 4—figure supplement 3E ) and smaller in amplitude ( P < 10–3 , Mann-Whitney U test , Figure 4—figure supplement 3F ) than in control experiments . To confirm these data genetically , we tested the effects of LPS on neurons isolated from dTrpA1-null larvae . These cells responded to LPS with significantly lower frequency ( 5/23 , 22% , P < 10–4 , Fisher exact test , Figure 4—figure supplement 3D , E ) and amplitude ( P < 10–4 , Mann-Whitney U test , Figure 4—figure supplement 3F ) than control neurons . Importantly , the subpopulation of neurons responsive to both LPS and AITC in cultures from control larvae was absent in cultures from dTrpA1-null animals ( Figure 4—figure supplement 3E ) . Taken together , these data indicate that dTRPA1 channels expressed in the plasma membrane mediate at least part of the Ca2+ influx triggered by stimulation with in Drosophila neurons . Interestingly , as for the experiments with NEM , neither the LPS- nor the AITC-induced responses were fully absent in TrpA1-null neurons . This demonstrates that receptors other than TRPA1 may be also sensitive to these compounds in cultured brain neurons . This is in line with previous reports showing that sensory neurons isolated from Trpa1 knockout mice showed reduced , but not completely abrogated responses to LPS ( Meseguer et al . , 2014 ) , and that TRPA1 is not the only target of electrophilic compounds in sensory neurons ( Alpizar et al . , 2014; Everaerts et al . , 2011; Gees et al . , 2013; Ohta et al . , 2007; Salazar et al . , 2008 ) . Here it is important to note that we used the larval fillet preparation and the neuron cultures as experimental models for native functional expression of dTRPA1 . 10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 009Figure 4 . LPS stimulates dTRPA1 . ( A ) Intracellular Ca2+ imaging in cultured brain L3 neurons expressing RFP and GCaMP5 under the control of dTrpA1Gal4 in baseline conditions and during extracellular perfusion with LPS ( 30 µg/ml ) , NEM ( 300 µM ) or high K+ ( 50 mM KCl ) . ( B ) Proportions of neurons responding to LPS ( red ) , NEM ( blue ) or both ( purple ) . ( C ) Time course of the currents amplitude measured at +75 and -75 mV during whole-cell patch-clamp recording in dTRPA1-A transfected HEK293T cell . The colored data points correspond to current traces shown at the top of the panel . ( D ) Average effects of LPS on the current amplitudes recorded at +75 and -75 mV in dTRPA1-A-transfected ( n = 7 ) and non-transfected ( n = 3 ) HEK293T cells . For each cell , the current amplitudes measured in the presence of LPS were normalized to those measured in control condition . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 00910 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 010Figure 4—figure supplement 1 . LPS stimulates dTRPA1 in vivo . ( A ) Examples of intracellular Ca2+ imaging recordings performed in the ventral nerve cord of Drosophila larvae in an in vivo larval fillet preparation . The arrows indicate the time of application of LPS ( 50 µg/ml ) , AITC ( 100 µM ) and a solution with high extracellular K+ concentration . The data are given in average pixel intensity ( API ) determined using the whole nerve cord region as region of interest ( vertical scale bars: 1 for LPS and AITC and 5 for high K+ ) . The black lines represent recordings in control conditions , whereas the red lines represent recordings in preparations that were incubated in the presence of the TRPA1 inhibitor HC030031 for 15 min . ( B ) Average amplitude of the intracellular Ca2+ responses elicited by LPS , AITC and high extracellular K+ in control and in the presence of HC030031 . * , P < 0 . 05 ( Mann-Whitney U test ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 01010 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 011Figure 4—figure supplement 2 . Images of a culture of cells from third instar larvae brains . Left , bright field; center , immuno-fluorescence staining with the neuronal marker Elav; right , merged images . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 01110 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 012Figure 4—figure supplement 3 . LPS stimulates Drosophila neurons in vitro in a dTRPA1-dependent manner . ( A ) Examples of the effects of extracellular application of LPS ( 60 µg/ml ) , AITC ( 100 µM ) or a high K+ solution on the intracellular Ca2+ concentration recorded in neurons isolated from control ( dTrpA1 wt ) larvae . ( B and C ) Effects if LPS on neurons isolated from control larvae in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ or in the presence of the dTRPA1 inhibitor HC030031 ( 100 µM ) . ( D ) Effects of extracellular application of LPS ( 60 µg/ml ) , AITC ( 100 µM ) or a high K+ solution on the intracellular Ca2+ concentration recorded in neurons isolated from dTrpA1-null ( dTrpA11 ) larvae . ( E ) Proportions of neurons responding to LPS only ( red ) , AITC only ( blue ) and to both LPS and AITC ( purple ) . The conditions Ca2+-free and HC030031 refer to application of LPS in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ or in the presence of the TRPA1 inhibitor HC030031 ( 100 µM ) , respectively . dTrpA1-null control refers to data obtained in neurons isolated from dTrpA1-null larvae in control conditions . ( F ) Average amplitude of the responses to LPS elicited in neurons isolated from control larvae ( in control , Ca2+-free and HC030031 ) and from dTrpA1-null larvae in control conditions . **denote statistically significant difference from the data in wild type larvae in control conditions , with P < 0 . 01 ( two-tailed Mann-Whitney U test ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 01210 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 013Figure 4—figure supplement 4 . LPS-induced responses in HEK293T cells transfected with dTRPA1 channels . ( A and B ) Intracellular Ca2+ imaging experiment showing that E . coli LPS ( 60 µg/ml ) stimulates cells transfected with dTRPA1-A ( A ) or dTRPA1-B ( B ) ( responsive to 100 µM AITC , black traces ) , but not non-transfected HEK293T cells ( unresponsive to AITC , blue traces ) . ( C ) Percentage of cells responding to LPS . In each experiment , non-transfected and transfected cells were identified by their unresponsiveness or responsiveness to the dTRPA1 agonist AITC . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13133 . 013 Finally , we determined whether dTRPA1 can be activated by LPS in the HEK293T heterologous expression system . We found that 60 µg/ml LPS induced only very few responses in non-transfected cells ( 7/110 ) , but stimulated a significantly larger fraction of cells transiently transfected with dTRPA1-A ( 42/74 , P < 10–4 , Fisher exact test ) or dTRPA1-B ( 14/67 , P = 0 . 007 , Fisher exact test ) ( Figure 4—figure supplement 4 ) . These responses were more variable in amplitude and less frequent than those triggered by AITC , indicating that LPS is a relatively weak agonist of dTRPA1 channels ( Alpizar et al . , 2013 ) . Further evidence for dTRPA1 activation by LPS was obtained in whole-cell patch-clamp experiments , in which application of LPS significantly enhanced both outward and inward currents in dTRPA1-A transfected HEK293T cells , but not control cells ( Figure 4C , D ) . Application of HC030031 reduced the amplitude of currents recorded in the presence of LPS ( 35 ± 4% at -75 mV , n = 6 , Figure 4C ) , further confirming the TRPA1-dependence of these responses . Previous results suggest that LPS activates mouse TRPA1 channels by inducing mechanical perturbations in the plasma membrane upon insertion of the lipophilic moiety of the molecule ( Meseguer et al . , 2014 ) . It is conceivable that LPS activates dTRPA1 channels via the same mechanism , but additional experiments are required to verify this . Taken together , our data demonstrate that fruit flies possess a gustatory mechanism underlying the detection and avoidance of LPS . The avoidance of LPS-contaminated food during feeding and oviposition may serve to prevent Gram-negative bacterial infections , potentially compensating for the lack of adaptive immunity in these animals . The fact that this sensory mechanism exploits dTRPA1 suggests a broadly conserved principle whereby these channels play a crucial role in LPS detection by sensory neurons in flies and mammals , regardless of the particular sensory modality involved . Our findings , together with previous evidence of an olfactory-based detection of secondary metabolites of Gram-positive bacteria ( Stensmyr et al . , 2012 ) , underscore the need to consider the function of the sensory nervous system as a crucial part of a broad mechanistic understanding of pathogen-host interactions . 
The generation of naïve T lymphocytes is critical for immune function yet the mechanisms governing their maturation remain incompletely understood . We have identified a mouse mutant , bloto , that harbors a hypomorphic mutation in the zinc finger protein Zfp335 . Zfp335bloto/bloto mice exhibit a naïve T cell deficiency due to an intrinsic developmental defect that begins to manifest in the thymus and continues into the periphery , affecting T cells that have recently undergone thymic egress . The effects of Zfp335bloto are multigenic and cannot be attributed to altered thymic selection , proliferation or Bcl2-dependent survival . Zfp335 binds to promoter regions via a consensus motif , and its target genes are enriched in categories related to protein metabolism , mitochondrial function , and transcriptional regulation . Restoring the expression of one target , Ankle2 , partially rescues T cell maturation . These findings identify Zfp335 as a transcription factor and essential regulator of late-stage intrathymic and post-thymic T cell maturation .  In order to mount effective adaptive responses against a diverse range of pathogens and antigens , the immune system has to generate sufficient numbers of mature peripheral T cells that express functional T cell receptors ( TCRs ) . T cell development is a complex and highly regulated process that involves multiple stages of selection and maturation , both within the thymus and after thymic export . In the thymus , productive rearrangement of the TCR β-chain in CD4−CD8− double negative ( DN ) thymocytes drives progression to the CD4+CD8+ double positive ( DP ) stage ( Starr et al . , 2003 ) . After rearrangement of the TCR α-chain , DP thymocytes express mature TCRs which are then used to survey self-peptide/MHC complexes presented by specialized epithelial cells in the thymic cortex ( cTECs ) ( Klein et al . , 2014 ) . A small percentage of DP thymocytes receive positively selecting TCR signals which promote their survival , in part through upregulation of IL-7Rα ( Sinclair et al . , 2011 ) . Positively selected thymocytes become committed to either the CD4 or CD8 single-positive ( SP ) lineage and migrate to the thymic medulla , where they undergo further negative selection mediated by interactions with antigen-presenting cells such as dendritic cells ( DCs ) or AIRE-dependent medullary thymic epithelial cells ( mTECs ) ( Hogquist et al . , 2005; Klein et al . , 2014 ) , during which thymocytes expressing self-reactive TCRs either undergo apoptosis or are diverted to alternative fates , such as becoming regulatory T cells ( Tregs ) ( Stritesky et al . , 2012 ) . As SP thymocytes undergo maturation , expression of the surface marker CD24 is decreased while CD62L expression is upregulated . As such , SP thymocytes may be further divided into two phenotypically distinct populations , often referred to as semi-mature ( CD62LloCD24hi ) and mature ( CD62LhiCD24lo ) . These phenotypic changes are associated with an important functional difference: semi-mature SP thymocytes are susceptible to apoptosis upon TCR stimulation , whereas mature SP thymocytes are not and respond instead by proliferating ( Sprent and Kishimoto , 2002; Weinreich and Hogquist , 2008 ) . In addition , only mature SP thymocytes upregulate sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor ( S1PR1 ) , which is required for egress from the thymus ( Matloubian et al . , 2004; Weinreich and Hogquist , 2008 ) . The process of SP thymocyte maturation , from entry into the SP compartment to thymic egress , has been estimated to take 4–5 days ( McCaughtry et al . , 2007 ) . New T cells , also referred to as recent thymic emigrants ( RTEs ) , undergo a phase of post-thymic phenotypic and functional maturation before they are incorporated into the long-lived peripheral naïve T cell pool ( Fink , 2012 ) . The transition from the semi-mature to mature stage of SP thymocyte development is marked by numerous changes in gene expression . Some of these changes , including the upregulation of S1PR1 and CD62L , are mediated by the transcription factor KLF2 ( Carlson et al . , 2006 ) . In the periphery , the process of post-thymic maturation is also associated with transcriptional changes , though on a smaller scale ( Mingueneau et al . , 2013 ) . For instance , an increase in IL-7Rα expression during this period has been shown to promote recent thymic emigrant ( RTE ) survival ( Silva et al . , 2014 ) . Proper regulation of the transcriptional program underlying late-stage SP thymocyte and post-thymic T cell maturation is thus critically important for the establishment of a normal naïve T cell compartment . Multiple genes involved in NF-κB signaling have been reported to be required for the development of mature T cells ( Guerin et al . , 2002; Schmidt-Supprian et al . , 2003; Sato et al . , 2005; Zhang and He , 2005; Liu et al . , 2006; Wan et al . , 2006; Silva et al . , 2014 ) , primarily through mechanisms related to TCR signaling and protection from apoptosis . In addition , roles for the transcriptional repressor Nkap ( Hsu et al . , 2011 ) and chromatin remodeling factor Bptf ( Landry et al . , 2011 ) have been identified in recent years . However , the transcriptional regulators controlling these stages of T cell maturation remain largely unknown . The C2H2 zinc finger family constitutes the largest class of transcription factors in mammalian genomes , and many key transcriptional regulators in immune cell development , such as Ikaros and Plzf , contain multiple C2H2 zinc fingers ( Brayer and Segal , 2008 ) . The C2H2 zinc finger fold is classically recognized to be a DNA-binding domain ( Wolfe et al . , 2000; Iuchi , 2005 ) , although it may also participate in interactions with RNA ( Brown , 2005 ) or other proteins ( Brayer and Segal , 2008 ) . In this study , we identify a C2H2 zinc finger protein , Zfp335 , as an essential regulator of T cell maturation . Zfp335 , also known as NIF-1 ( Mahajan et al . , 2002; Garapaty et al . , 2009 ) , is ubiquitously expressed and is essential for early development , with homozygous deletion resulting in embryonic lethality at E7 . 5 ( Yang et al . , 2012 ) . Here , we report that an ENU-induced mutant allele of Zfp335 results in defective accumulation of naïve T cells , largely as a consequence of impaired maturation in SP thymocytes and RTEs . We show that this maturation defect is independent of thymic selection or effects on proliferation , but is associated with reduced viability . We identify a set of Zfp335 target genes in thymocytes and present evidence that decreased Zfp335 occupancy at a subset of these targets alters gene expression in mutant thymocytes . Taken together , our findings provide evidence that Zfp335 functions as a transcription factor and key regulator of a transcriptional program required for T cell maturation . 
A critical assumption of gene expression analysis is that mRNA abundances broadly correlate with protein abundance , but these two are often imperfectly correlated . Some of the discrepancy can be accounted for by two important mRNA features: codon usage and mRNA secondary structure . We present a new global factor , called mRNA:ncRNA avoidance , and provide evidence that avoidance increases translational efficiency . We also demonstrate a strong selection for the avoidance of stochastic mRNA:ncRNA interactions across prokaryotes , and that these have a greater impact on protein abundance than mRNA structure or codon usage . By generating synonymously variant green fluorescent protein ( GFP ) mRNAs with different potential for mRNA:ncRNA interactions , we demonstrate that GFP levels correlate well with interaction avoidance . Therefore , taking stochastic mRNA:ncRNA interactions into account enables precise modulation of protein abundance .  It should in principle be possible to predict protein abundance from genomic data . However , protein and mRNA levels are not strongly correlated ( de Sousa Abreu et al . , 2009; Vogel and Marcotte , 2012; Kwon et al . , 2014; Maier et al . , 2011; Lu et al . , 2007; Taniguchi et al . , 2010; Chen et al . , 2016 ) , which is a major barrier to precision bioengineering and quantification of protein levels . mRNA secondary structure ( Pelletier and Sonenberg , 1987; Chamary and Hurst , 2005 ) , codon usage ( Ikemura , 1981; Sharp and Li , 1987; Andersson and Kurland , 1990 ) , and mRNA ( and protein ) degradation rates ( Maier et al . , 2011 ) are commonly invoked to explain this discrepancy ( Boël et al . , 2016-21 ) . Yet , at best , these features account for only 40% of variation , and in some instances explain very little of the observed variation ( Kudla et al . , 2009; Maier et al . , 2011; Plotkin and Kudla , 2011; Goodman et al . , 2013; Chen et al . , 2016 ) . Here we show that crosstalk interactions between ncRNAs and mRNAs also impact protein abundance , and that such interactions have a greater effect than either mRNA secondary structure or codon usage . We measured interactions between a set of evolutionarily conserved core mRNAs and ncRNAs from 1700 prokaryotic genomes using minimum free energy ( MFE ) models . For 97% of species , we find a reduced capacity for interaction between native RNAs relative to controls . Furthermore , by generating synonymously variant GFP mRNAs that differ in their potential to interact with core ncRNAs , we demonstrate that GFP expression levels can be both predicted and controlled . Our results demonstrate that there is strong selection for the avoidance of stochastic mRNA:ncRNA interactions across prokaryotes . Applying this knowledge to mRNA design will enable precise control of protein abundance through the incorporation or exclusion of inhibitory interactions with native ncRNAs . 
Despite being an early event in ALS , it remains unclear whether the denervation of neuromuscular junctions ( NMJ ) is simply the first manifestation of a globally degenerating motor neuron . Using in vivo imaging of single axons and their NMJs over a three-month period , we identify that single motor-units are dismantled asynchronously in SOD1G37R mice . We reveal that weeks prior to complete axonal degeneration , the dismantling of axonal branches is accompanied by contemporaneous new axonal sprouting resulting in synapse formation onto nearby NMJs . Denervation events tend to propagate from the first lost NMJ , consistent with a contribution of neuromuscular factors extrinsic to motor neurons , with distal branches being more susceptible . These results show that NMJ denervation in ALS is a complex and dynamic process of continuous denervation and new innervation rather than a manifestation of sudden global motor neuron degeneration .  Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by upper and lower motor neuron ( MN ) loss . Loss of neuromuscular junctions ( NMJs ) is a key pathological event in ALS patients ( Fischer et al . , 2004; Killian et al . , 1994 ) and in animal models of the disease ( Clark et al . , 2016; Fischer et al . , 2004; Frey et al . , 2000; Pun et al . , 2006; Tallon et al . , 2016 ) . Denervation of NMJs is observed prior to symptom onset ( Clark et al . , 2016; Fischer et al . , 2004; Pun et al . , 2006; Tallon et al . , 2016; Vinsant et al . , 2013 ) and before any significant MN axonal or cell body loss ( Fischer et al . , 2004; Vinsant et al . , 2013 ) . However , whether early NMJ denervation arises from local branch-specific degeneration ( ‘dying-back hypothesis’ ) or is merely the manifestation of a diseased and globally degenerating motor neuron remains ill-defined . There is considerable evidence which suggests that a subset of degenerating motor-units ( MU , a motor neuron and the muscle fibers it innervates ) swiftly lose their NMJs while a distinct , yet unaffected , population compensates via axonal sprouting ( Pun et al . , 2006; Schaefer et al . , 2005 ) , somewhat akin to a nerve injury . Indeed , NMJs innervated by fast-fatigable MNs are lost early , followed by fast-fatigue resistant and slow MNs ( Frey et al . , 2000; Pun et al . , 2006 ) . This is further supported by electromyographic ( EMG ) recordings showing that the number of MUs declines in parallel with muscle strength ( Azzouz et al . , 1997; Dantes and McComas , 1991; Hegedus et al . , 2007; Hegedus et al . , 2008; Kennel et al . , 1996; McComas et al . , 1971 ) and that surviving MUs increase in size in animal models and in patients ( Dantes and McComas , 1991; Dengler et al . , 1990; McComas et al . , 1971; Schmied et al . , 1999 ) . Taken together , these results strongly suggest that the loss of NMJs within a single MU is a dichotomous and mostly synchronous event and that local synaptic events have a limited impact on the denervation process . Under this monotonic paradigm , degenerating MUs are irrevocably caught in a degenerative cascade while surviving MUs attempt to compensate , consequently undermining the relevance of the NMJ as a disease-modifying therapeutic target . However , the rescue of neuronal loss in SOD1 mice does not necessarily improve NMJ denervation ( Gould et al . , 2006; Parone et al . , 2013; Suzuki et al . , 2007 ) suggesting that local branch-specific events may play a key role in NMJ denervation . In ALS , local alterations of synaptic function and molecular signaling take place very early at the NMJ ( Arbour et al . , 2015; De Winter et al . , 2006; Jokic et al . , 2006; Rocha et al . , 2013; Taetzsch et al . , 2017; Tremblay et al . , 2017 ) , implying that local , MU-independent , structural changes could occur . Finally , ALS is a non-cell autonomous disease where cell types other than motor neurons contribute to the disease pathogenesis ( Boillée et al . , 2006a; Ilieva et al . , 2009 ) . Contribution of various cell types known to interact with NMJs and motor axons has been suggested ( Arbour et al . , 2015; Chiu et al . , 2009; Keller et al . , 2009; Lobsiger et al . , 2009; Loeffler et al . , 2016; Nardo et al . , 2016; Turner et al . , 2010; Wang et al . , 2012 ) , which could contribute to NMJ loss . In this scenario , asynchronous branch-specific synaptic changes would take place over time within single MUs . Altogether , these divergent paradigms highlight that the precise sequence of events taking place at the NMJ in ALS remains ill-defined . From a therapeutic viewpoint , this distinction is of high importance since it could pinpoint the NMJ as an accessible target that can be exploited within a time window between the onset of structural changes and the global degeneration of the MU , as previously suggested ( Cantor et al . , 2018; Miyoshi et al . , 2017; Pérez-García and Burden , 2012 ) . Here , we used longitudinal repeated in vivo imaging of single motor neuron axonal arbors and their NMJs to directly assess the time course and dynamics of structural changes during ALS progression . We predict that a MU-dependent mechanism would result in the more or less synchronous degeneration of the whole MU over a brief period , while a contribution of local neuromuscular changes would result in the asynchronous loss of NMJs within a single MU . 
Adjuvant tamoxifen therapy improves survival in breast cancer patients . Unfortunately , long-term treatment comes with side effects that impact health and quality of life , including hot flashes , changes in bone density , and fatigue . Partly due to a lack of proven animal models , the tissues and cells that mediate these negative side effects are unclear . Here , we show that mice undergoing tamoxifen treatment experience changes in temperature , bone , and movement . Single-cell RNA sequencing reveals that tamoxifen treatment induces widespread gene expression changes in the hypothalamus and preoptic area ( hypothalamus-POA ) . These expression changes are dependent on estrogen receptor alpha ( ERα ) , as conditional knockout of ERα in the hypothalamus-POA ablates or reverses tamoxifen-induced gene expression . Accordingly , ERα-deficient mice do not exhibit tamoxifen-induced changes in temperature , bone , or movement . These findings provide mechanistic insight into the effects of tamoxifen on the hypothalamus-POA and indicate that ERα mediates several physiological effects of tamoxifen treatment in mice .  Tamoxifen is a selective estrogen receptor modulator that has been used for effective treatment of hormone responsive breast cancers for more than 40 years ( Jordan , 2003 ) . As an adjuvant , tamoxifen therapy can decrease the incidence of breast cancer recurrence by up to 40% ( Davies et al . , 2011 ) . This exceptionally effective therapy remains standard of care for people with hormone-responsive cancers , and reduction of recurrence persists for at least 10 years of continuous tamoxifen treatment ( Davies et al . , 2013; Chlebowski et al . , 2014; Gierach et al . , 2017 ) . In contrast to these benefits , tamoxifen therapy has been associated with a variety of negative side effects , including increased risk for hot flashes ( Love et al . , 1991; Howell et al . , 2005; Francis et al . , 2015 ) , endometrial cancer and venous thromboembolic events ( Fisher et al . , 1998; Cuzick et al . , 2007 ) , bone loss ( Powles et al . , 1996 ) , and fatigue ( Haghighat et al . , 2003 ) . These responses markedly impact quality of life . Accordingly , ~25% of eligible patients fail to start or complete this life-saving therapy due to side effects and safety concerns ( Friese et al . , 2013; Berkowitz et al . , 2021 ) . The tissues and cells that mediate these negative side effects remain unclear . Unraveling the cells and mechanisms that mediate the positive effects of tamoxifen from those that mediate the negative side effects is necessary for understanding the multifaceted effects of tamoxifen therapy on physiology . Ultimately , this knowledge could lead to the design of new or adjuvant therapies that circumvent the side effects , improve patient quality of life , and perhaps enhance survival via increased patient compliance . Within the brain , the hypothalamus and preoptic area ( hypothalamus-POA ) is highly enriched for estrogen receptor expression and represents an excellent anatomical candidate for mediating many of the side effects of tamoxifen therapy in humans . Estrogen receptor alpha ( ERα ) signaling regulates body temperature ( Bowe et al . , 2006; Musatov et al . , 2007; Mittelman-Smith et al . , 2012; Martínez de Morentin et al . , 2014 ) , physical activity ( Musatov et al . , 2007; Correa et al . , 2015; van Veen et al . , 2020 ) , and bone density ( Farman et al . , 2016; Zhang et al . , 2016; Herber et al . , 2019 ) through distinct neuronal populations . Indeed , the hypothalamus-POA is a demonstrated target of tamoxifen , leading to changes in food intake and body weight ( Wade and Heller , 1993; López et al . , 2006; Lampert et al . , 2013 ) and changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian ( Wilson et al . , 2003; Aquino et al . , 2016 ) and hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( Wilson et al . , 2003 ) axes . Tamoxifen has also been shown to affect gene expression in the hypothalamus; its administration blocks the estrogen dependent induction of the progesterone receptor ( Pgr ) in the ventromedial hypothalamus ( VMH ) and increases the expression of estrogen receptor beta ( Esr2 ) in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus ( PVH ) ( Patisaul et al . , 2003; Aquino et al . , 2016; Sá et al . , 2016 ) . We hypothesized that tamoxifen alters estrogen receptor signaling in the hypothalamus-POA to mediate key negative side effects of tamoxifen therapy . To test this hypothesis , we modeled tamoxifen treatment in mice with a 28-day treatment course based on human dosage ( Slee et al . , 1988 ) and asked if mice experience physiological effects similar to humans . We measured movement , bone density , and the temperature of the body core , tail skin , and thermogenic brown adipose tissue ( BAT ) . Profiling genome-wide expression changes of individual cells in the hypothalamus-POA using Drop-seq , a droplet-based single-cell RNA sequencing technology , revealed transcriptional changes induced by tamoxifen in multiple cell types . Finally , we show that ERα expression in the hypothalamus-POA is necessary for the tamoxifen-induced chances in gene expression in the hypothalamus-POA and the effects on thermoregulation , bone density , and movement . Together , these findings suggest that tamoxifen treatment modulates ERα signaling in the central nervous system to alter fundamental aspects of physiology and health . Dissecting central versus peripheral effects and mechanisms of tamoxifen therapy is the first step toward identifying strategies to mitigate the adverse side effects of this life-saving treatment . 
ISG15 is an interferon-stimulated , linear di-ubiquitin-like protein , with anti-viral activity . The role of ISG15 during bacterial infection remains elusive . We show that ISG15 expression in nonphagocytic cells is dramatically induced upon Listeria infection . Surprisingly this induction can be type I interferon independent and depends on the cytosolic surveillance pathway , which senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING , TBK1 , IRF3 and IRF7 . Most importantly , we observed that ISG15 expression restricts Listeria infection in vitro and in vivo . We made use of stable isotope labeling in tissue culture ( SILAC ) to identify ISGylated proteins that could be responsible for the protective effect . Strikingly , infection or overexpression of ISG15 leads to ISGylation of ER and Golgi proteins , which correlates with increased secretion of cytokines known to counteract infection . Together , our data reveal a previously uncharacterized ISG15-dependent restriction of Listeria infection , reinforcing the view that ISG15 is a key component of the innate immune response .  Listeria monocytogenes is a food-borne pathogen that can cause enteric infections . In addition , in immunocompromised individuals it can cross the blood–brain barrier and in pregnant women the feto-placental barrier potentially leading to cases of meningitis and septicemia . To be fully virulent , Listeria must evade macrophage killing , enter and replicate in epithelial cells and spread from cell to cell . Towards these aims Listeria subverts a number of normal host cell functions in order to promote its own replication and dissemination through a plethora of well-characterized virulence factors ( Cossart and Lebreton , 2014 ) . Conversely , Listeria induces a rapid and sterilizing CD8+ T cell-mediated adaptive immune response that has been extensively characterized ( Lara-Tejero and Pamer , 2004; Pamer , 2004 ) . A more recent area of investigation has been the innate immune response to the pathogen ( Stavru et al . , 2011 ) . Since Listeria is able to survive and replicate in the cytosol , several groups have sought to elucidate how bacteria are sensed within macrophages and more recently within nonphagocytic cells . Once Listeria has escaped from the phagosome , its multidrug efflux pumps secrete small molecules leading to activation of an IRF3-dependent cytosolic surveillance pathway ( CSP ) , resulting in type I interferon activation ( Crimmins et al . , 2008 ) . One of these small molecules , cyclic-di-AMP , is sufficient to activate interferon β production in macrophages ( Woodward et al . , 2010 ) . In nonphagocytic cells , type I interferon induction seems to emanate from sensing of triphosphorylated RNA molecules via a RIG-I and MAVS-dependent pathway ( Abdullah et al . , 2012; Hagmann et al . , 2013 ) . Type I interferon production subsequently leads to autocrine or paracrine activation of interferon-stimulated genes ( ISGs ) . We have recently shown that Listeria also activates the type III interferon pathway ( Lebreton et al . , 2011; Bierne et al . , 2012 ) , a pathway which was discovered much later than type I interferon ( Kotenko et al . , 2003; Sheppard et al . , 2003 ) . The type III interferon receptor has a more limited tissue expression pattern than the receptor for type I interferon but activates a signaling pathway similar to that of the type I interferon receptor . Several laboratories including ours have recently contributed to the understanding of the type III interferon-dependent response to intracellular viral and bacterial infections . Strikingly , the type III response occurs via peroxisomal MAVS ( Dixit et al . , 2010; Odendall et al . , 2014 ) . The role of one particular ISG , ISG15 , during bacterial infection remains elusive . ISG15 is a linear di-ubiquitin-like molecule ( ubl ) that is conserved from zebrafish to human; however , it is much less well characterized than other ubls ( Bogunovic et al . , 2013 ) . It can conjugate to over 300 cellular proteins and can also function as a cytokine to induce interferon-γ production in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( D'Cunha et al . , 1996; Giannakopoulos et al . , 2005; Zhao et al . , 2005 ) . Since Listeria , as other pathogenic bacteria , often targets post-translational modifications during infection ( Bonazzi et al . , 2008; Ribet and Cossart , 2010; Ribet et al . , 2010 ) , we were interested in investigating the interplay between the interferon-stimulated ubl ISG15 and Listeria . ISG15 plays an important role in the innate immune response to viruses . Isg15 expression becomes rapidly upregulated , and the protein is subsequently conjugated to cellular and/or viral targets following type I interferon induction ( Zhang and Zhang , 2011 ) . Mice deficient in ISG15 are susceptible to infection with Influenza , Sindbis , and Herpes viruses ( D'Cunha et al . , 1996; Lenschow et al . , 2005 , 2007 ) . Furthermore , many viruses encode proteins that specifically impair ISGylation ( Frias-Staheli et al . , 2007 ) . ISG15 seems to be unique among ubls , as it can both modify specific target proteins and non-specifically modify proteins cotranslationally ( Frias-Staheli et al . , 2007; Durfee et al . , 2010; Zhao et al . , 2010 ) . Since ISG15 is strongly induced by type I interferon , which is produced during bacterial infection , we aimed to decipher whether ISG15 is induced during Listeria infection and if so whether ISGylation acts as a means of host defense against invading bacteria . Here , we show that in nonphagocytic cells ISG15 is dramatically induced upon Listeria infection and that , surprisingly , early induction can be type I interferon independent . Listeria-mediated ISG15 induction depends on the CSP , which senses bacterial DNA and signals through STING , TBK1 , IRF3 , and IRF7 . Most importantly , we demonstrate that ISG15 counteracts Listeria infection both in vitro and in vivo . We identified protein targets of ISGylation following overexpression of ISG15 using stable isotope labeling in tissue culture ( SILAC ) analysis and uncovered a prominent enrichment in integral membrane proteins of the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus . This enrichment correlated with an increase in canonical secretion of cytokines known to control infection , highlighting a new mechanism of regulation of the host response to an intracytosolic pathogen . 
Single-molecule Förster Resonance energy transfer ( smFRET ) is an adaptable method for studying the structure and dynamics of biomolecules . The development of high throughput methodologies and the growth of commercial instrumentation have outpaced the development of rapid , standardized , and automated methodologies to objectively analyze the wealth of produced data . Here we present DeepFRET , an automated , open-source standalone solution based on deep learning , where the only crucial human intervention in transiting from raw microscope images to histograms of biomolecule behavior , is a user-adjustable quality threshold . Integrating standard features of smFRET analysis , DeepFRET consequently outputs the common kinetic information metrics . Its classification accuracy on ground truth data reached >95% outperforming human operators and commonly used threshold , only requiring ~1% of the time . Its precise and rapid operation on real data demonstrates DeepFRET’s capacity to objectively quantify biomolecular dynamics and the potential to contribute to benchmarking smFRET for dynamic structural biology .  Single-molecule Förster resonance energy transfer ( smFRET ) combined with TIRFm ( total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy ) is a key powerful method to study the structure of biomolecules and provide a dynamic perspective in structural biology ( Lerner et al . , 2018 ) . Capturing the real-time readouts of nanometer-scale distances of individual biomolecules by smFRET allows the direct observations of dynamics , interactions , and intermediates of stochastic non-accumulating events , as well as dynamic equilibria between unsynchronized molecules , all of which are obscured in ensemble averaging techniques ( Dimura et al . , 2016; Hellenkamp et al . , 2018; Holmstrom et al . , 2019; Juette et al . , 2016; Newton et al . , 2019; Preus et al . , 2015; Roy et al . , 2008; Schuler and Eaton , 2008; Stella et al . , 2018 ) . The high fidelity and proficiency of smFRET established it as a key toolbox for the accurate characterization of mechanisms , biomolecular interactions function , and even structures of biomolecules ( Craggs and Kapanidis , 2012; Dulin et al . , 2018; Kalinin et al . , 2012; Kilic et al . , 2018; Ratzke et al . , 2014 ) , under both in vitro ( Schluesche et al . , 2007; Sharma et al . , 2008; Stein et al . , 2011 ) and in vivo ( Okamoto et al . , 2020; Sakon and Weninger , 2010 ) conditions . Despite its great quantitative utility and profound impact on structural biology , smFRET is not a direct imaging modality and data treatment for extracting quantitative dynamic information relies on multiple layers of preprocessing: raw image treatment , trace selection , and data analysis . Raw image treatment ( Greenfeld et al . , 2012; Hon and Gonzalez , 2019; Juette et al . , 2016; Preus et al . , 2015; Stella et al . , 2018 ) and data analysis of the selected smFRET traces is in general well-standardized and relies on well-defined methodologies with strong theoretical backing ( Hon and Gonzalez , 2019; Schmid et al . , 2016 ) . The actual trace selection can be time-consuming but crucial due to the presence of undesired phenomena at the single-molecule scale , such as sample aggregation , fluorescent contaminants , incomplete or incorrect sample labeling , complex photophysical behaviors , and high noise , to mention a few ( Algar et al . , 2019; Hellenkamp et al . , 2018; Roy et al . , 2008 ) . Existing software ( Greenfeld et al . , 2012; Hellenkamp et al . , 2018; Hon and Gonzalez , 2019; Juette et al . , 2016; Preus et al . , 2015; Stella et al . , 2018 ) by single-molecule labs can simplify the tedious and time-consuming selection of traces and were recently expanded to large datasets ( Juette et al . , 2016 ) albeit requiring some form of manual supervision and hyper-parameter tuning selecting the proper thresholds by an expert user . This need for human intervention could potentially be subjected to cognitive biases especially by less experienced users and could limit the expansion of smFRET to classic biology labs . The increasing expansion of smFRET to structural biology labs would benefit from rapid and benchmarked methodologies , reproducible across laboratories , with minimal human intervention . This is highlighted by several initiatives to standardize the smFRET field ( Greenfeld et al . , 2012; Hellenkamp et al . , 2018; Lerner et al . , 2018; Sali et al . , 2015 ) . Recent advances in machine learning ( ML ) and specifically deep learning ( DL ) ( LeCun et al . , 2015 ) , have radically improved our capacity to access and extract information from abstract and noisy inputs independently of human interventions as we ( ATLAS collaboration , 2014 ) and others have shown ( Berg et al . , 2019; Christiansen et al . , 2018; Falk et al . , 2019; Gómez-García et al . , 2018; Jones , 2019; Ouyang et al . , 2018; Smith et al . , 2019; Zhang et al . , 2018 ) . DL implementations are providing high-level robust performances and have been successfully used to analyze and augment a wide range of the fluorescence microscopy analysis pipeline including assessing microscope image quality ( Yang et al . , 2018 ) , in-silico cell labeling ( Christiansen et al . , 2018 ) , single-cell morphology analysis ( Berg et al . , 2019; Falk et al . , 2019 ) , detecting single molecules ( White et al . , 2020; Wu and Rifkin , 2015 ) and linking smFRET experiments with molecular dynamics simulations ( Matsunaga and Sugita , 2018 ) , amongst others ( Berg et al . , 2019; Christiansen et al . , 2018; Falk et al . , 2019; Gómez-García et al . , 2018; Jones , 2019; Ouyang et al . , 2018; Smith et al . , 2019; Zhang et al . , 2018 ) . Deep learning-based analysis has several advantages over other approaches: It recognizes abstract patterns and learns useful features directly from the raw input data , which allows the implementation of analysis routines that do not require extensive data preprocessing or empirically defined rules , and thus offer reproducible and less opinionated evaluation of single-molecule data; It is significantly faster than human annotation for large single-molecule datasets; it comes close to , or outperforms human performance; and its performance is increased when increasing dataset size constituting an ideal case for evaluating the large datasets obtained from single-molecule data ( Berg et al . , 2019; Christiansen et al . , 2018; Falk et al . , 2019; Gómez-García et al . , 2018; Jones , 2019; Ouyang et al . , 2018; Smith et al . , 2019; Zhang et al . , 2018 ) . Especially important are convolutional deep neural networks ( DNN ) , artificial neural networks that learn to approximate the underlying function that transforms input to associated output through multiple rounds of optimization . The strength of DNN is the ability to learn arbitrarily complex functions to best recognize particular aspects of the given input data and model complex nonlinear relationships . The DNN is then able to classify data into predefined classes based on the provided training labels . While the training of a DNN is generally a computationally intensive process , once trained the final model can easily be shared and used for making predictions at almost no computational cost to end-users . Here we provide DeepFRET , an all-inclusive analysis software with a pre-trained DNN at its core , for a rapid , objective , and accurate assessment of smFRET data for quantifying biomolecular dynamics . The fully automated analysis software operates with minimal crucial human intervention and requires only a threshold on the data quality confidence , as an initial step , to output detailed quantification of structural dynamic from raw images . This is attained by an intuitive and user-friendly interface that integrates and automates common smFRET analysis procedures ( Greenfeld et al . , 2012; Hellenkamp et al . , 2018; Hon and Gonzalez , 2019; Juette et al . , 2016; Preus et al . , 2015; Stella et al . , 2018 ) from raw image analysis and background-corrected intensity trace extraction ( Thomsen et al . , 2019 ) , to sophisticated trace classification , statistical analysis of single-molecule data and production of publication-quality figures of dynamic structural biology insights ( see Materials and methods ) . DeepFRET comes as a free-to-use standalone executable for both Windows and Mac users allowing end-users with limited programming skills to easily operate it . A script-based version implemented entirely in Python enables experts to adjust features pipelining the analysis specified for their needs . We anticipate DeepFRET to take full advantage of the widespread digitization and open repository of smFRET data and form a reference point setting a bar for the data quality and data classification performance metrics , offering additional benchmarking the field for dynamic structural biology . 
Polycomb repressive complex-1 ( PRC1 ) is essential for the epigenetic regulation of gene expression . SCML2 is a mammalian homolog of Drosophila SCM , a Polycomb-group protein that associates with PRC1 . In this study , we show that SCML2A , an SCML2 isoform tightly associated to chromatin , contributes to PRC1 localization and also directly enforces repression of certain Polycomb target genes . SCML2A binds to PRC1 via its SPM domain and interacts with ncRNAs through a novel RNA-binding region ( RBR ) . Targeting of SCML2A to chromatin involves the coordinated action of the MBT domains , RNA binding , and interaction with PRC1 through the SPM domain . Deletion of the RBR reduces the occupancy of SCML2A at target genes and overexpression of a mutant SCML2A lacking the RBR causes defects in PRC1 recruitment . These observations point to a role for ncRNAs in regulating SCML2 function and suggest that SCML2 participates in the epigenetic control of transcription directly and in cooperation with PRC1 .  Polycomb group ( PcG ) genes are key epigenetic regulators in Drosophila , mammals , and plants ( Schuettengruber et al . , 2007 ) . PcG mutants fail to maintain transcriptional repression of differentiation genes during development , which results in their ectopic expression , compromised patterning of the embryo , and homeotic transformations ( Lewis , 1978; Struhl , 1981; Simon et al . , 1992 ) . Most PcG genes encode proteins that recognize chromatin or modify its structure , often by forming multi-subunit protein complexes such as Polycomb repressive complex 1 ( PRC1 ) ( Simon and Kingston , 2009 ) . Genetic screens and biochemical studies have identified several additional PcG proteins that are not stable components of known Polycomb complexes . One of these proteins is sex comb on midleg ( SCM ) , which is required for appropriate body patterning during embryonic development in Drosophila ( Simon et al . , 1992; Bornemann et al . , 1996 , 1998 ) . SCM and its human homologs were recovered in sub-stoichiometric amounts after biochemical purifications of the PRC1 complex ( Shao et al . , 1999; Levine et al . , 2002; Gao et al . , 2012 ) , suggesting a functional link between SCM and PRC1 . SCM also belongs to a small family of proteins characterized by the presence of a conserved malignant brain tumor domain ( MBT ) , which functions as a binding module for methylated lysines on histones ( Bonasio et al . , 2010a ) , further suggesting that SCM might function on chromatin . In addition to the MBT domain , SCM contains a C-terminal SPM domain , through which it is thought to interact with PRC1 ( Peterson et al . , 2004 ) . Despite the crucial importance of PcG proteins in gene regulation , development , and disease ( Sparmann and van Lohuizen , 2006 ) , a coherent model that explains how these proteins are recruited and regulate different target genes in different cell lineages is lacking ( Simon and Kingston , 2009 ) . In Drosophila , arrays of DNA motifs recognized by a variety of transcription factors function as recruitment ‘hubs’ for PRCs and are known as Polycomb responsive elements ( PREs ) ( Müller and Kassis , 2006 ) ; however , PREs alone are not sufficient to explain or predict the genome-wide occupancy patterns of PcG complexes ( Simon and Kingston , 2009 ) . In mammals , our understanding of PRC targeting is even more limited , given that only a few examples of PRE-like DNA elements have been described to date ( Bengani et al . , 2013; Cuddapah et al . , 2012; Sing et al . , 2009; Woo et al . , 2010 , 2013 ) and several of the transcription factors that bind and recruit Drosophila PRCs are absent or poorly conserved ( Schuettengruber et al . , 2007 ) . Moreover , there are several mammalian versions of the two best characterized Drosophila PcG complexes , PRC1 and PRC2 , which differ in subunit composition and chromatin localization ( Kuzmichev et al . , 2004; Margueron et al . , 2008; Gao et al . , 2012 ) . The mammalian PRC1 closest in subunit composition to their Drosophila homolog ( PRC1 . 2 and PRC1 . 4 [Gao et al . , 2012] ) have conserved functions in development and disease ( Richly et al . , 2011 ) and contain subunits that recognize trimethylated lysine 27 of histone H3 ( H3K27me3 ) , the catalytic product of PRC2 ( Cao et al . , 2002; Kuzmichev et al . , 2002 ) . However , the mechanistic details of PRC1 repression in mammals are poorly understood . Although H3K27me3 may contribute to stabilizing some forms of PRC1 on chromatin , the genome-wide distribution of PRC1 is largely unchanged in embryonic stem cells that do not have H3K27me3 ( Tavares et al . , 2012 ) , and many PRC1 complexes do not contain the subunit that binds to H3K27me3 ( Gao et al . , 2012 ) . Various factors , including RUNX1 ( Yu et al . , 2012 ) and the RNA helicase MOV10 ( El Messaoudi-Aubert et al . , 2010 ) , have also been proposed to guide PRC1 recruitment in specific contexts , but an overarching model remains lacking . Given that increasing evidence points to a role for noncoding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) in mediating recruitment of chromatin complexes ( Koziol and Rinn , 2010; Wang and Chang , 2011 ) and that at least one ncRNA has been shown to make contact with PRC1 ( Yap et al . , 2010 ) , we hypothesized that an RNA-binding chromatin protein may be involved in PRC1 recruitment in mammals . The potential role of SCM and its mammalian homologs in the regulation of PRC1 and function remain unexplored . A recent study showed that Drosophila SCM is recruited to the PRE upstream of Ultrabithorax independent of PRC1 or PRC2 , whereas PRC1 and PRC2 binding requires the presence of SCM ( Wang et al . , 2010b ) . The human genome comprises four genes with homology to Scm , but only two that contain conserved MBT , SPM , and DUF3588 domains , SCMH1 and SCML2 . SCMH1 functions in spermatogenesis ( Takada et al . , 2007 ) , whereas little is known about SCML2 , except that it is ubiquitously expressed and that deletions of its coding sequence are found in a subset of medulloblastomas ( Northcott et al . , 2009 ) , suggesting it may have tumor-suppressive activity . In this study , we report that SCML2 interacts with ncRNAs through an RNA-binding region ( RBR ) , contributes to the recruitment of PRC1 to target genes and also directly collaborates in gene repression . Furthermore , we show that the chromatin localization of SCML2 is achieved through the combined action of the RBR , MBT , and SPM domains and that the expression of ΔRBR mutants of SCML2 causes mislocalization of PRC1 . 
Regulation of translating ribosomes is a major component of gene expression control network . In Escherichia coli , ribosome stalling by the C-terminal arrest sequence of SecM regulates the SecA-dependent secretion pathway . Previous studies reported many residues of SecM peptide and ribosome exit tunnel are critical for stalling . However , the underlying molecular mechanism is still not clear at the atomic level . Here , we present two cryo-EM structures of the SecM-stalled ribosomes at 3 . 3–3 . 7 Å resolution , which reveal two different stalling mechanisms at distinct elongation steps of the translation cycle: one is due to the inactivation of ribosomal peptidyl-transferase center which inhibits peptide bond formation with the incoming prolyl-tRNA; the other is the prolonged residence of the peptidyl-RNA at the hybrid A/P site which inhibits the full-scale tRNA translocation . These results demonstrate an elegant control of translation cycle by regulatory peptides through a continuous , dynamic reshaping of the functional center of the ribosome .  Translation regulation , as an essential component of the gene expression control , is usually mediated by a variety of ribosome-interacting factors and could take place at different stages during the translation cycle ( Duval et al . , 2015; Hinnebusch and Lorsch , 2012; Keiler , 2015; Spriggs et al . , 2010; Starosta et al . , 2014 ) . Furthermore , protein synthesis can also be modulated by regulatory nascent peptides , as demonstrated by an increasing number of such sequences found throughout all kingdoms of life ( Cruz-Vera et al . , 2011; Lovett and Rogers , 1996; Ramu et al . , 2009 ) . One such example is a variety of ribosome arrest peptides , often encoded by upstream open reading frames ( uORF ) or mRNA 5’ leaders that are utilized to regulate the expression of co-transcribed genes ( Cruz-Vera et al . , 2011; Ito and Chiba , 2013; Morris and Geballe , 2000; Wethmar , 2014 ) . Ribosome stalling by nascent peptides involves interactions of the regulatory peptide with the peptide exit channel on the 50S subunit , and in a few cases , requires coordination of small-molecule ligands , such as antibiotic erythromycin and tryptophan for the ErmCL and the TnaC-induced stalling , respectively ( Arenz et al . , 2014a; Bischoff et al . , 2014; Johansson et al . , 2014; Seidelt et al . , 2009 ) . In Escherichia coli , SecM-mediated translation stalling is specifically employed to regulate the secretion pathway of the cell ( McNicholas et al . , 1997; Nakatogawa and Ito , 2001; Oliver et al . , 1998 ) . SecM is encoded by the 5’-end half of a bicistronic mRNA , secM-secA . SecA is an ATPase-dependent molecular motor helping secretory and outer membrane proteins across the cytoplasmic membrane in bacteria ( Bauer et al . , 2014; Economou and Wickner , 1994; Lill et al . , 1989; van der Wolk et al . , 1997 ) . SecM is a secreted protein with 170 amino acids in length , including a 17-amino-acid stalling sequence 150FSTPVWISQAQGIRAGP166 near its C terminus , which alone is sufficient to induce stalling . The intergenic region of the mRNA between secM and secA can form a stem-loop secondary structure , which would mask the translation initiation Shine-Dalgarno ( SD ) sequence of secA and therefore limits the synthesis of secA to a basal level . SecM-induced stalling could occur , as a consequence of impaired secretion pathways , and subsequently causes destabilization of the intergenic mRNA structure and increases the exposure of secA SD sequence to the ribosome ( Butkus et al . , 2003; Kiser and Schmidt , 1999; McNicholas et al . , 1997; Nakatogawa and Ito , 2001 , 2002; Sarker and Oliver , 2002 ) . Therefore , as a response to compromised secretion activity in the cell , the synthesis of SecA is upregulated . The stalling sequence of SecM could also induce ribosome stalling under normal conditions , but it is only temporary and quickly rescued by the functional Sec system through a simple pulling force by translocon ( Butkus et al . , 2003; Goldman et al . , 2015 ) . Thus , the regulatory peptide within SecM offers a feedback loop on the ribosome to ensure sufficient level of SecA in bacteria to regulate protein secretion . Previous biochemical and structural studies have demonstrated that the ribosome stalling originates from the interaction of the 17-amino-acid nascent peptide of SecM with the 50S exit tunnel components . In the arrest sequence , R163 , G165 , and P166 are essential , because mutation of any of these residues can completely abolish stalling ( Nakatogawa and Ito , 2002; Yap and Bernstein , 2009 ) . Other five residues ( F150 , W155 , I156 , G161 , and I162 ) are also important as mutations of them can abolish stalling partially ( Nakatogawa and Ito , 2002; Yap and Bernstein , 2009 ) . A few ribosomal components lining the tunnel are also required for efficient stalling , for mutations of A2058G , A2062U , or A2503G , or insertion of one adenine nucleotide within the five consecutive adenine residues ( A749-A753 ) , as well as mutations or deletion of selected residues from uL22 and uL4 could all alleviate translational stalling to certain extents ( Lawrence et al . , 2008; Nakatogawa and Ito , 2002; Vazquez-Laslop et al . , 2010; Woolhead et al . , 2006 ) . Previous structural studies of the SecM-arrested ribosome suggested that the interaction between the exit tunnel and the arrest peptide could change the conformation of the PTC ( peptidyl-transferase center ) to slow down the peptide bond formation ( Bhushan et al . , 2011; Gumbart et al . , 2012 ) . However , the previous structures were not in sufficient resolution for direct visualization of the atomic interactions between the tunnel components and the nascent peptide . Furthermore , a recent study employed fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) to monitor the real-time translation of SecM on the ribosome ( Tsai et al . , 2014 ) , and revealed that the stalling is a dynamic process involving reduced elongation rates at a range of positions on the SecM mRNA , from G165 to 4–5 codons after the terminal P166 of the arrest sequence , including increased lifetime for both unrotated and rotated ribosomes at these codon positions . Nevertheless , although the stalling induced by SecM is not strictly a single-site event , G165 is the first predominant site of stalling ( Tsai et al . , 2014 ) . Recent advancement of cryo-EM single particle technique , such as the application of direct electron detection devices and efficient algorithms for conformational sorting of particles allow simultaneous high-resolution structural determination of several functional states from a single heterogeneous dataset ( Bai et al . , 2015; Cheng , 2015; Cheng et al . , 2015 ) . Therefore , we set out to use this method to analyze the structures of the ribosomes stalled on SecM mRNA . Our structural data of the two predominant forms of stalled ribosomes , one in post-state , and the other in hybrid rotated state , indicate that a collection of interactions between SecM and the exit tunnel cooperatively induce conformational changes of the PTC , leading to translation arrest at distinct elongation steps , including peptide-bond formation and tRNA translocation . 
We provide the first measures of foveal cone density as a function of axial length in living eyes and discuss the physical and visual implications of our findings . We used a new generation Adaptive Optics Scanning Laser Ophthalmoscope to image cones at and near the fovea in 28 eyes of 16 subjects . Cone density and other metrics were computed in units of visual angle and linear retinal units . The foveal cone mosaic in longer eyes is expanded at the fovea , but not in proportion to eye length . Despite retinal stretching ( decrease in cones/mm2 ) , myopes generally have a higher angular sampling density ( increase in cones/deg2 ) in and around the fovea compared to emmetropes , offering the potential for better visual acuity . Reports of deficits in best-corrected foveal vision in myopes compared to emmetropes cannot be explained by increased spacing between photoreceptors caused by retinal stretching during myopic progression .  One might expect that eye growth would stretch the photoreceptor layer and would increase the spacing between cones , causing a longer eye to more coarsely sample an image relative to a shorter eye . However the situation is not that simple; the axial elongation associated with eye growth is accompanied by magnification of the retinal image ( Strang et al . , 1998 ) . If the enlargement of the retinal image exactly matched the stretching of the cone mosaic , then eyes of different lengths would sample the visual field similarly . In fact , in large scale studies , myopes generally attain reasonably good visual acuity with optical correction ( He et al . , 2004; Jong et al . , 2018 ) . However , more careful inspection reveals that myopes generally ( 6 out of 9 studies ) have poorer angular resolution and have uniformly ( 3 out of 3 studies ) poorer retinal resolution . Table 1 summarizes published results from psychophysical foveal tasks . Most notably , Atchison et al . ( 2006 ) and Coletta and Watson ( 2006 ) show clear deficits in retinal resolution ( cyc/mm ) with increasing myopia using interferometric methods which bypass the optics of the eye and Rossi et al . ( 2007 ) show significant deficits in angular resolution ( cyc/deg ) in low myopes , even after using adaptive optics to correct for optical blur . All studies that find myopic visual deficits implicate retinal stretching as a possible cause , but what is actually happening structurally at the foveal center during myopic progression is not known . Therefore , the aim of the current study is to more carefully investigate how the length of the eye affects cone density at and near the foveal center . Two types of cone densities will be discussed in this study . Linear density quantifies how many cones are within a fixed area , in square mm , and serves as a way to evaluate physical retinal stretching caused by eye growth . Angular density quantifies how many cones are within one degree visual angle , ( the visual angle on the retina is measured from the secondary nodal point of the eye ) . Angular density serves as a way to evaluate the visual implications of eye growth as it governs the sampling resolution of the eye . Figure 1 illustrates three models , along the lines of Strang et al . ( 1998 ) , of how photoreceptor structure might be affected by myopic eye growth . In the first model , called the global expansion model , the retina is proportionally stretched with increasing axial length - cones are more spaced out in longer eyes - and linear density decreases with eye length . Assuming that the secondary nodal point remains at a fixed position relative to the anterior segment , the number of cones within a fixed angular area will remain constant . Therefore , angular cone density will be constant with eye length . In the second model , called the equatorial stretching model , the posterior retina simply moves axially further from the anterior segment of the eye so that the linear density does not change with eye length . Since the retina is moving further from the secondary nodal point , more cones will fall within a fixed angular area and the angular cone density will increase with eye length . The final model , called the over-development model , describes a structural photoreceptor change that mimics the changes that occur during development ( Springer and Hendrickson , 2004 ) whereby the photoreceptors continue to migrate towards the fovea as the eye grows . In this scenario , longer eyes will show both increased linear cone density and an even steeper increase in angular cone density . The model is motivated by observations of increased linear cone density in the foveas of marmosets that underwent lens-induced eye growth ( Troilo , 1998 ) . The most definitive studies of cone spacing as a function of axial length are done through direct imaging of the retina – wherein sharp images of the cones are enabled through the use of adaptive optics , a set of technologies that actively compensate the blur caused by aberrations of the eye ( Liang et al . , 1997 ) . Combined with confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy ( Webb et al . , 1987 ) , adaptive optics offers the highest contrast en face images of the foveal photoreceptor mosaic ever recorded in vivo ( Dubra et al . , 2011; Roorda et al . , 2002 ) . Despite continued advances in image quality , previous studies investigating cone packing and eye length have not made their measurements at the foveal center , the most important region for spatial vision but the most difficult to image owing to the small size of photoreceptors . There are a number of studies on cone packing and eye length ( Chui et al . , 2008; Elsner et al . , 2017; Kitaguchi et al . , 2007; Li et al . , 2010; Obata and Yanagi , 2014; Park et al . , 2013 ) and here we summarize the published results that are most relevant to our study . Chui et al . ( 2008 ) investigated angular and linear cone density at 1 mm and three degrees eccentricity . They found a significant decrease ( p<0 . 05 ) in linear cone density as a function of eye length at 1 mm ( which , by angular distance , is closer to the fovea in a longer eye than in a shorter eye ) in all directions except in the nasal retina . They found that the angular cone density at three degrees ( which , by linear distance , is closer to the fovea , in a shorter eye than in a longer eye ) increased with eye length , but the trends were not significant . Li et al . ( 2010 ) made similar measures , but closer to the fovea ( from 0 . 10 mm to 0 . 30 mm eccentricity ) . They found that linear cone density decreased with eye length , but the trends were not significant at the smallest eccentricities ( 0 . 1 and 0 . 2 mm ) . When the data were plotted in angular units and angular distance from the fovea , they found that angular cone density trended toward an increase with eye length but none of the trends were significant . A more recent study measured peak cone densities in the fovea as well as axial length for 22 eyes of 22 subjects ( Wilk et al . , 2017 ) but they did not plot peak cone density as a function of axial length , as it was not the aim of their study . We plotted the data they provided in their paper and found that the linear cone density at the foveal center dropped significantly with increases in axial length , similar to what was found by Li et al . ( 2010 ) and Chui et al . ( 2008 ) , but the angular cone density had no dependency on eye length . Summary plots from previous literature are shown in Figure 2AB . Wilk et al . ( 2017 ) ’s data were consistent with a global expansion model and Li et al . ( 2010 ) and Chui et al . ( 2008 ) ’s data only leaned toward a model that falls between the global expansion and equatorial stretching models . If the trends found by Li et al . ( 2010 ) and Chui et al . ( 2008 ) near the fovea were to extend to the foveal center , then myopes would have higher foveal photoreceptor sampling resolution with a consequent potential for better performance on visual tasks compared to emmetropes . As such , the simplest explanation for visual deficits in myopes – increased separation between cones caused by retinal stretching – would have to be ruled out . With the improvements in resolution of adaptive optics ophthalmoscopes , imaging the smallest cones at the foveal center is now possible in many eyes , enabling a definitive analysis of the cone density at the fovea as a function of eye length . 
Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading cause of invasive disease in infants , especially in low-income settings . Asymptomatic carriage in the nasopharynx is a prerequisite for disease , but variability in its duration is currently only understood at the serotype level . Here we developed a model to calculate the duration of carriage episodes from longitudinal swab data , and combined these results with whole genome sequence data . We estimated that pneumococcal genomic variation accounted for 63% of the phenotype variation , whereas the host traits considered here ( age and previous carriage ) accounted for less than 5% . We further partitioned this heritability into both lineage and locus effects , and quantified the amount attributable to the largest sources of variation in carriage duration: serotype ( 17% ) , drug-resistance ( 9% ) and other significant locus effects ( 7% ) . A pan-genome-wide association study identified prophage sequences as being associated with decreased carriage duration independent of serotype , potentially by disruption of the competence mechanism . These findings support theoretical models of pneumococcal competition and antibiotic resistance .  Streptococcus pneumoniae is a human pathogen that can cause diseases such as pneumonia , otitis media and meningitis . Pneumococcal disease burden is highest in children ( O'Brien et al . , 2009 ) . For disease to be caused pneumococci must first transmit to the host , colonise the nasopharynx and finally cross into a normally sterile site . The pneumococcus spends most of the transmission cycle in the nasopharynx , and so understanding and predicting the amount of time spent in this niche is critical for understanding this bacterium's epidemiology , and therefore controlling transmission ( Abdullahi et al . , 2012a; Melegaro et al . , 2007 ) . The nasopharynx is a complex niche in which each pneumococcal genotype must tackle a wide range of factors including host immune defence ( McCool et al . , 2002 ) , other bacterial species ( Pericone et al . , 2000 ) , and other pneumococcal lineages ( Auranen et al . , 2010; Cobey and Lipsitch , 2012 ) in order to maintain the genotype's population . The average nasopharyngeal duration period is therefore affected by a large number of factors , which may , themselves , interact . One factor that is known to strongly associate with carriage duration is serotype: as capsular polysaccharides are important in bacterial physiology and determining host immune response , different serotypes have different clearance and acquisition rates ( Abdullahi et al . , 2012a; Hill et al . , 2010; Högberg et al . , 2007; Melegaro et al . , 2004; Turner et al . , 2012 ) . Additionally , a range of other proteins have been identified as critical to the colonisation process ( Kadioglu et al . , 2008 ) , some of which exhibit similar levels of diversity to the capsule polysaccharide synthesis locus ( Iannelli et al . , 2002; Jedrzejas et al . , 2001 ) . However , the overall and relative contributions of these sequence variations to carriage rate have not yet been characterised . In addition variation of pathogen protein sequence , accessory genes and interaction effects between genetic elements may also have as yet unknown effects on carriage duration . Changes in average carriage duration have been shown to be linked with recombination rate ( Chaguza et al . , 2016 ) , which has been found to correlate with antibiotic resistance ( Hanage et al . , 2009 ) and invasive potential ( Chaguza et al . , 2016 ) . The carriage duration by different serotypes is widely used in models of pneumococcal epidemiology , and consequently is important in evaluating the efficacy of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine ( PCV ) ( Melegaro et al . , 2007; Weinberger et al . , 2011 ) . Additionally , modelling work has proposed that if alleles exist which alter carriage duration , these explain the long standing puzzle of how antibiotic-resistant and sensitive strains stably coexist in the population ( Lehtinen et al . , 2017 ) . Measurement of carriage duration and the analysis of its variance beyond the resolution of serotype will have important consequences for these models . We sought to determine the overall importance of the pathogen genotype in carriage duration in a human population , and to identify and quantify the elements of the genome responsible for the variation in carriage duration . By combining epidemiological modelling of longitudinal swab data with and genome wide association study methods on the connected sequences ( Figure 1 ) , we made heritability estimates for carriage duration . We further partitioned the heritability into contributions from lineage and locus effects ( Earle et al . , 2016 ) to quantify the variation caused by each individual factor . 
Cardiac repolarization is determined in part by the slow delayed rectifier current ( IKs ) , through the tetrameric voltage-gated ion channel , KCNQ1 , and its β-subunit , KCNE1 . The stoichiometry between α and β-subunits has been controversial with studies reporting either a strict 2 KCNE1:4 KCNQ1 or a variable ratio up to 4:4 . We used IKs fusion proteins linking KCNE1 to one ( EQ ) , two ( EQQ ) or four ( EQQQQ ) KCNQ1 subunits , to reproduce compulsory 4:4 , 2:4 or 1:4 stoichiometries . Whole cell and single-channel recordings showed EQQ and EQQQQ to have increasingly hyperpolarized activation , reduced conductance , and shorter first latency of opening compared to EQ - all abolished by the addition of KCNE1 . As well , using a UV-crosslinking unnatural amino acid in KCNE1 , we found EQQQQ and EQQ crosslinking rates to be progressively slowed compared to KCNQ1 , which demonstrates that no intrinsic mechanism limits the association of up to four β-subunits within the IKs complex .  Kv7 . 1 ( KCNQ1 ) is a voltage gated potassium channel expressed throughout the body . When paired with the accessory β-subunit , KCNE1 , it has unique properties in several tissues , particularly the myocardium and inner ear . In the heart , KCNQ1 and KCNE1 together conduct the slow delayed rectifier current ( IKs ) . This current is primarily responsible for stabilizing repolarization and shortening action potential duration at high heart rates ( Marx et al . , 2002; Ackerman , 1998 ) . Several inherited mutations in KCNQ1 or KCNE1 result in the life-threating arrhythmogenic syndromes long QT ( LQT ) types 1 and 5 , short QT type 2 or familial atrial fibrillation ( Splawski et al . , 2000;Bellocq et al . , 2004; Chen et al . , 2003 ) . In addition to their role in the heart , KCNQ1 and KCNE1 are also involved in hearing , where mutations have been linked with Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome , an inherited form of LQT syndrome accompanied by deafness ( Jervell and Lange-Nielsen , 1957; Neyroud et al . , 1997; Schulze-Bahr et al . , 1997 ) . KCNQ1 and KCNE1 complexes have also been found in the proximal tubule of the kidney , where they participate in secretory transduction ( Vallon et al . , 2001 ) . KCNQ1 has a classic six transmembrane domain structure consisting of a voltage sensor domain ( VSD; S1-S4 ) and pore domain ( S5-S6 ) , which assemble into a tetrameric channel . Unlike other Kv channels , KCNQ1 has flexible gating characteristics and the association with accessory β-subunits can drastically modulate its gating behavior ( Eldstrom and Fedida , 2011; Liin et al . , 2015 ) . The best characterized of these accessory subunits is KCNE1 , a single transmembrane domain protein proposed to reside in the exterior cleft formed between the voltage sensor domains of the α-subunits ( Sanguinetti et al . , 1996; Barhanin et al . , 1996; Osteen et al . , 2010; Kang et al . , 2008; Van Horn et al . , 2011 ) . The association of KCNE1 has been found to increase channel conductance , remove inactivation , and depolarize the voltage dependence of activation . These actions have a profound effect on the rate of channel activation and its response to drugs and hormones ( Sanguinetti et al . , 1996; Barhanin et al . , 1996; Sesti and Goldstein , 1998; Yang and Sigworth , 1998; Pusch , 1998; Tristani-Firouzi and Sanguinetti , 1998; Nerbonne and Kass , 2005; Lerche et al . , 2000; Yu et al . , 2013 ) . Despite the significant role of this ion channel complex in health and disease , the stoichiometry of the binding between KCNQ1 and KCNE1 remains controversial . Since the identification of the components that comprise this channel almost 20 years ago , several studies have reported a ratio of two β-subunits to every four α-subunits ( Kang et al . , 2008; Wang and Goldstein , 1995; Chen et al . , 2003; Morin and Kobertz , 2007; Morin and Kobertz , 2008; Plant et al . , 2014 ) . However , other experiments have suggested a more flexible stoichiometry with anywhere from one to four β-subunits associating per KCNQ1 tetramer depending on their concentration ( Yu et al . , 2013; Cui et al . , 1994; Wang , 1998; Morokuma et al . , 2008; Zheng et al . , 2010; Wang et al . , 2011; Strutz-Seebohm et al . , 2011; Nakajo et al . , 2010 ) . Most notably , two recent reports both utilizing total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy to count β-subunits by single molecule photo-bleaching reached opposing conclusions . Working in oocytes , Nakajo and colleagues characterized a flexible stoichiometry up to 4:4 that was dependent on the relative density of KCNE1 in the membrane ( Nakajo et al . , 2010 ) . Using a similar approach in mammalian cells , Plant et al . ( 2014 ) reported that KCNQ1 tetramers were only present on the cell surface in a 2:4 or 0:4 stoichiometry with KCNE1 . They also found that the 2:4 ratio was not exceeded even in the presence of increasing KCNE1 concentrations . Their observation of a maximum of 2 KCNE1 subunits per tetramer suggests an intrinsic cooperative mechanism preventing the association of a third or fourth β-subunit during channel assembly . Here , we sought to clarify this issue using fusion channels where KCNE1 was linked to one ( EQ - 4:4 ) , two ( EQQ – 2:4 ) or four ( EQQQQ - 1:4 ) KCNQ1s . The channel complexes were evaluated in mammalian cells on their own or in combination with additional independent KCNE1 subunits using whole cell patch clamp , single-channel recordings and UV-crosslinking unnatural amino acid approaches . In each instance , we were able to demonstrate that all four of KCNQ1’s exterior clefts are accessible to KCNE1 , confirming the variable stoichiometry model for channel complex assembly . In addition , the single channel analysis suggests that a 4:4 stoichiometry of KCNQ1 to KCNE1 maximizes channel conductance . 
Cellular responses to injury are crucial for complete tissue regeneration , but their underlying processes remain incompletely elucidated . We have previously reported that myeloid-defective zebrafish mutants display apoptosis of regenerative cells during fin fold regeneration . Here , we found that the apoptosis phenotype is induced by prolonged expression of interleukin 1 beta ( il1b ) . Myeloid cells are considered to be the principal source of Il1b , but we show that epithelial cells express il1b in response to tissue injury and initiate the inflammatory response , and that its resolution by macrophages is necessary for survival of regenerative cells . We further show that Il1b plays an essential role in normal fin fold regeneration by regulating expression of regeneration-induced genes . Our study reveals that proper levels of Il1b signaling and tissue inflammation , which are tuned by macrophages , play a crucial role in tissue regeneration .  Progress in regenerative medicine depends on unraveling the mechanisms underlying tissue and organ regeneration . The zebrafish is a powerful model species for investigation of regeneration mechanisms because it exhibits high regenerative capacity . Zebrafish can regenerate complex structures such as fins , heart , brain , retina , and other tissues ( Gemberling et al . , 2013 ) . The caudal fin of zebrafish , in particular , has been used as a model for analyzing epimorphic regeneration , a type of regeneration in the urodele limb and fish fin ( Poss et al . , 2003 ) . During epimorphic regeneration , two characteristic tissues , the wound epidermis and the blastema , are induced in response to tissue amputation , and their coordinated actions regulate cell proliferation and morphogenesis and thus lead to tissue regeneration . Studies conducted using the caudal fin regeneration model have identified numerous genes and molecular signaling pathways that are critical for fin regeneration ( Yoshinari and Kawakami , 2011; Wehner and Weidinger , 2015 ) . In addition to the classical regeneration model developed using the adult caudal fin , a zebrafish larval fin fold model has been developed ( Kawakami et al . , 2004; Mateus et al . , 2012 ) , allowing identification of additional genes and signaling pathways required for regeneration ( Mathew et al . , 2009; Ishida et al . , 2010; Yoo et al . , 2012 ) . Specifically , the fin fold regeneration model has facilitated genetic analysis of the regeneration mechanism by exploiting a number of mutant zebrafish resources ( Rojas-Muñoz et al . , 2009; Yoshinari et al . , 2009 ) , because several zebrafish lethal mutants survive beyond 7 days post fertilization ( dpf ) —an adequate period for assaying tissue regeneration—because of nutrient supply from the yolk . Previously , we reported that zebrafish mutants , cloche ( clo ) ( Stainier et al . , 1995; Reischauer et al . , 2016 ) and tal1/scl ( Bussmann et al . , 2007 ) , showed a unique regenerative defect: these mutants could not regenerate their fin fold because of apoptosis of the regenerative cells ( Hasegawa et al . , 2015 ) . Our analyses of the clo mutant revealed that a diffusible survival factor from myeloid-lineage cells is required to prevent apoptosis of the primed regenerative cells . That study suggested that the regenerative cells are sensitive to apoptosis during tissue regeneration , but the mechanism of this sensitization and the identity of the survival factor remain unknown . Myeloid cells are widely recognized to play a role in protection against pathogens and microorganisms after tissue injury . Neutrophils are first recruited to sites of inflammation , and these cells encounter pathogens and phagocytose and kill microorganisms by producing reactive oxygen species and/or antibacterial proteins ( Kolaczkowska and Kubes , 2013 ) . Subsequently , macrophages infiltrate the inflammation site , produce pro- or anti-inflammatory cytokines , remove tissue debris , secrete growth factors , and support tissue restoration ( Koh and DiPietro , 2011 ) . Several recent studies have used the zebrafish model and addressed the roles of myeloid cells in response to tissue injury: Li and coworkers ( Li et al . , 2012 ) showed that knockdown of macrophage differentiation delayed fin fold regeneration and resulted in formation of an abnormal fin fold featuring large vacuoles . Furthermore , Petrie and coworkers ( Petrie et al . , 2014 ) showed that genetic ablation of macrophages in adult zebrafish impaired fin outgrowth and often induced an abnormal fin . These studies suggest a crucial role for macrophages in tissue regeneration; however , the mechanism by which myeloid cells affect regeneration remains to be elucidated . Here , we show that a pro-inflammatory cytokine gene , interleukin 1 beta ( il1b ) , is aberrantly upregulated in the clo mutant , and that the resulting excessive and prolonged inflammation causes apoptosis of the regenerative cells . Moreover , although myeloid cells are widely regarded as the main cells that secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines such as Il1b and thereby promote inflammation , we demonstrate that epidermal cells surrounding the amputated tissue are the source of Il1b in both wild-type ( WT ) and clo larvae . Notably , il1b expression in the regenerating epidermis is usually quenched by the action of macrophages , and a lack of this anti-inflammatory effect of the macrophages results in apoptosis . Lastly , we show that Il1b signaling plays an indispensable role in normal tissue regeneration by activating expression of regeneration-induced genes . Thus , our study highlights the function of Il1b and the inflammatory response in tissue regeneration . A proper level of il1b expression and the inflammatory response , which are tuned by macrophages , are necessary for progression of tissue regeneration . 
Much of the molecular motion in the cytoplasm is diffusive , which possibly limits the tempo of processes . We studied the dependence of protein mobility on protein surface properties and ionic strength . We used surface-modified fluorescent proteins ( FPs ) and determined their translational diffusion coefficients ( D ) in the cytoplasm of Escherichia coli , Lactococcus lactis and Haloferax volcanii . We find that in E . coli D depends on the net charge and its distribution over the protein , with positive proteins diffusing up to 100-fold slower than negative ones . This effect is weaker in L . lactis and Hfx . volcanii due to electrostatic screening . The decrease in mobility is probably caused by interaction of positive FPs with ribosomes as shown in in vivo diffusion measurements and confirmed in vitro with purified ribosomes . Ribosome surface properties may thus limit the composition of the cytoplasmic proteome . This finding lays bare a paradox in the functioning of prokaryotic ( endo ) symbionts .  Many processes in biological cells depend on interactions between macromolecules ( proteins and nucleic acids ) and thus on the ability of these macromolecules to find each other by translational diffusion . This is especially important in prokaryotes because of the virtual absence of active mechanisms of cytoplasmic transport . It is clear that macromolecules need to diffuse for cells to function . To what extent the actual rate of this diffusion matters depends on the process under consideration and is in many cases unknown . For Brownian diffusion the rate of movement is characterized entirely by the diffusion coefficient , D . The exact value of the diffusion coefficient is important to the rate of a process only if it is diffusion limited , e . g . if the necessary conformational changes in an enzyme are faster than the diffusion of reactants . Arbitrarily lowering a diffusion coefficient , e . g . by osmotic stress , can make a process diffusion limited . Examples of diffusion-limited processes are binding of tRNA complexes to the ribosome , which leads to limitation in cell growth ( Klumpp et al . , 2013 ) ; and the binding of barstar to barnase , which we know to be diffusion limited because the proteins are designed to have an increased association rate by electrostatic interactions ( Vijayakumar et al . , 1998 ) . Because protein diffusion is influenced by the environment , we need to determine diffusion coefficients in the context of the cell . The cytoplasm of cells is not only crowded with macromolecules ( van den Berg et al . , 2017 ) but also consists of various types of nucleic acids and >1000 types of protein ( see proteome analysis below ) ; though only 50 protein types make up 85% of the cytoplasmic proteome of E . coli ( McGuffee et al . , 2010 ) . Various studies report on the presence of weak and nonspecific interactions between these components . NMR studies on proteins , either in the E . coli cytoplasm ( Crowley et al . , 2011; Ye et al . , 2013 ) or cell lysates ( Latham and Kay , 2013 ) , reveal that there are weak interactions between E . coli proteins and proteins cytochrome c , ubiquitin , and calmodulin . In a computational study on protein interactions it was found that in E . coli more highly expressed proteins are constrained in evolution to be less sticky ( Levy et al . , 2012 ) , suggesting that nonspecific interactions are common and consequential . The transient macromolecular interactions in vivo , resulting from molecular evolution , are referred to as the quinary structure of proteins ( McConkey , 1982 ) , and we discriminate these from the more generic nonspecific interactions that occur between molecules without coevolved interfaces . In this study we set out to study the diffusion coefficients of proteins as a function of their surface properties and thus probe the boundary conditions for the generic nonspecific interactions . Our interest in this was piqued by four datasets from the literature . The first is the scattering of diffusion coefficients in the E . coli cytoplasm around a common downward trend when they are plotted against protein molecular weight; the dataset suggests that not only size ( and shape ) matter ( Mika and Poolman , 2011 ) . Second , the diffusion coefficient of GFP is faster in the cytoplasm of osmotically-adapted E . coli cells than in osmotically-upshifted cells , even at similar cytoplasmic macromolecule volume fraction ( Konopka et al . , 2009 ) . Third , the diffusion coefficient of GFP drops much faster with cell volume ( after an osmotic upshift ) in Lactococcus lactis than in E . coli ( Mika et al . , 2014 ) . Fourth , the slowing of diffusion in metabolic energy-depleted cells suggests changes in the dynamic structure of the cytoplasm ( Parry et al . , 2014; Joyner et al . , 2016; Munder et al . , 2016 ) . In all four cases differential interactions of proteins with their surroundings may play a role , which are grounded in the surface properties of the macromolecules . Besides ( possibly ) giving insight into these four phenomena , studying the dependence of mobility on protein surface properties adds to our general quantitative understanding of diffusion; complementing studies on the relation between diffusion coefficients and protein size ( Mika and Poolman , 2011; Mika et al . , 2014; Kumar et al . , 2010; Nenninger et al . , 2010; Mika et al . , 2010 ) , diffusion coefficients and macromolecular crowding ( Konopka et al . , 2009; Mika et al . , 2014; Mika et al . , 2010; Konopka et al . , 2006; van den Bogaart et al . , 2007 ) , and the dynamic structure of the cytoplasm ( Spitzer and Poolman , 2009; Spitzer and Poolman , 2013 ) . Here , we use a set of GFP variants with a net charge that ranges from −30 to +25; we also studied two variants of +11 GFP that differ in the distribution of the charge over the surface . All diffusion coefficients were determined by fluorescence recovery after photo-bleaching ( FRAP ) . We study these proteins in the bacteria Escherichia coli and Lactococcus lactis and the archaeon Haloferax volcanii . These three organisms differ in their cytoplasmic ionic strength as shown by measurements on the dominant cation , K+: E . coli ( 0 . 2 M ) ( Shabala et al . , 2009 ) , L . lactis ( 0 . 8 M ) ( Poolman et al . , 1987 ) ( note: L . lactis used to be called Streptococcus cremoris ) , and Hfx . volcanii ( 2 . 1 M ) ( Pérez-Fillol and Rodríguez-Valera , 1986 ) ; these values are dependent on environmental conditions , but the differences in potassium ion concentration likely report the differences in ionic strength in these prokaryotes . The difference in ionic strength between E . coli and L . lactis is also reflected in the higher turgor pressure of L . lactis ( Mika et al . , 2014 ) . 
Regeneration is widespread , but mechanisms that activate regeneration remain mysterious . Planarians are capable of whole-body regeneration and mount distinct molecular responses to wounds that result in tissue absence and those that do not . A major question is how these distinct responses are activated . We describe a follistatin homolog ( Smed-follistatin ) required for planarian regeneration . Smed-follistatin inhibition blocks responses to tissue absence but does not prevent normal tissue turnover . Two activin homologs ( Smed-activin-1 and Smed-activin-2 ) are required for the Smed-follistatin phenotype . Finally , Smed-follistatin is wound-induced and expressed at higher levels following injuries that cause tissue absence . These data suggest that Smed-follistatin inhibits Smed-Activin proteins to trigger regeneration specifically following injuries involving tissue absence and identify a mechanism critical for regeneration initiation , a process important across the animal kingdom .  Regeneration occurs in widespread contexts and species . Invertebrates such as Hydra are capable of whole-animal regeneration from tissue fragments , and many vertebrates can regenerate appendages or repair damaged organs ( Sánchez Alvarado , 2000 ) . Despite this widespread relevance , the central mechanisms that drive regeneration are poorly understood . Planarians are flatworms capable of regeneration following an almost limitless variety of injuries and have emerged as a powerful model for exploring the molecular underpinnings of regeneration ( Newmark and Sánchez Alvarado , 2002 ) . New tissues are formed at planarian wound sites in a process called blastema formation , and pre-existing tissues are reorganized after amputation to accommodate reduced animal size and further generate missing tissues ( Morgan , 1901; Reddien and Sánchez Alvarado , 2004 ) . The source of regenerated tissue in planarians is a population of adult dividing cells called neoblasts ( Reddien and Sánchez Alvarado , 2004 ) , which include pluripotent stem cells called clonogenic neoblasts ( cNeoblasts ) ( Wagner et al . , 2011 ) . Neoblasts are the only somatic cycling cells in adult animals and can be specifically ablated by gamma irradiation , allowing for dissection of the requirements for neoblasts in regenerative processes ( Reddien and Sánchez Alvarado , 2004 ) . Recent work has described the earliest molecular and cellular events that occur following injury ( Pellettieri et al . , 2010; Wenemoser and Reddien , 2010; Sandmann et al . , 2011; Wenemoser et al . , 2012 ) . One finding to emerge from this work is that animals initiate distinct cellular and molecular responses to ‘major injuries’ that remove significant amounts of tissue ( e . g . , head amputation ) and to ‘simple injuries’ that require only minimal healing for repair ( wounds that do not elicit blastema formation , such as punctures or incisions ) . Following simple injury , for example , animals display an increase in mitotic numbers 6 hr after injury before returning to baseline levels ( Wenemoser and Reddien , 2010 ) , and expression of numerous wound-induced genes becomes undetectable by 24 hr after injury ( Wenemoser et al . , 2012 ) . Following a major injury , these same initial responses are observed , but subsequent responses are also activated: the 6 hr increase in mitotic numbers is followed by a second increase 48 hr after amputation ( Wenemoser and Reddien , 2010 ) , and wound-induced gene expression persists beyond 24 hr and is refined over several days ( Wenemoser et al . , 2012 ) . These responses are referred to as the ‘missing-tissue response’ ( Wenemoser and Reddien , 2010; Wenemoser et al . , 2012 ) . How animals distinguish between injuries involving varying amounts of tissue loss and regulate these distinct wound response programs remains unknown . We identified Smed-follistatin as required for molecular and cellular ‘missing-tissue’ responses during regeneration . Specifically , Follistatin-mediated inhibition of Activin signaling is required for regeneration to occur , with Smed-follistatin expression at wounds controlled by the extent of tissue absence following injury . These results suggest a mechanism by which regenerative responses can be initiated . 
DNA replication errors that persist as mismatch mutations make up the molecular fingerprint of mismatch repair ( MMR ) -deficient tumors and convey them with resistance to standard therapy . Using whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing , we here confirm an MMR-deficient mutation signature that is distinct from other tumor genomes , but surprisingly similar to germ-line DNA , indicating that a substantial fraction of human genetic variation arises through mutations escaping MMR . Moreover , we identify a large set of recurrent indels that may serve to detect microsatellite instability ( MSI ) . Indeed , using endometrial tumors with immunohistochemically proven MMR deficiency , we optimize a novel marker set capable of detecting MSI and show it to have greater specificity and selectivity than standard MSI tests . Additionally , we show that recurrent indels are enriched for the ‘DNA double-strand break repair by homologous recombination’ pathway . Consequently , DSB repair is reduced in MMR-deficient tumors , triggering a dose-dependent sensitivity of MMR-deficient tumor cultures to DSB inducers .  MMR-deficiency represents a well-established cause of Lynch syndrome , which is an autosomal dominantly inherited disorder of cancer susceptibility triggered by loss-of-function mutations in MMR genes ( MLH1 , MSH2 , or MSH6 ) ( Jiricny , 2006 ) . Lynch syndrome is responsible for 2–5% of endometrial ( EM ) or colorectal ( CRC ) tumors . Additionally , epigenetic silencing of MLH1 contributes to another 15–28% of these tumors ( Parsons et al . , 2012; Peltomaki , 2014 ) . Deficiency of the MMR machinery leads to DNA replication errors in the tumor tissue , but not the normal surrounding tissue . In particular , errors often accumulate as indel mutations in mono- and di-nucleotide repeats—a phenomenon referred to as microsatellite instability ( MSI ) ( Pinol et al . , 2005 ) . MMR-deficient tumors exhibit a different prognosis and therapeutic outcome after standard chemotherapy ( Ng and Schrag , 2010 ) . Untreated CRC patients with MMR-deficient tumors have a modestly better prognosis , but do not seem to benefit from 5-fluorouracil-based adjuvant chemotherapy , which is the first-choice chemotherapy for CRC . In particular , in MMR-deficient tumors , mismatches induced by 5-fluorouracil are tolerated , leading to failure to induce cell death ( Fischer et al . , 2007 ) . MMR-deficient tumors are also resistant to cisplatin and carboplatin , which are frequently used chemotherapies in EM cancer ( Hewish et al . , 2010 ) . Furthermore , MMR-deficient tumors can be resistant to targeted therapies , because they acquire secondary mutations in genes that activate alternative or downstream signaling pathways ( e . g . , PIK3CA ) . Another possibility is that epigenetic silencing of MLH1 coincides with particular mutations , such as the BRAF V600E mutation ( Donehower et al . , 2013 ) , which represents an established negative predictor of response to targeted anti-EGFR therapies in advanced CRC ( Richman et al . , 2009 ) . Efforts to individualize the treatment of MMR-deficient tumors have focused on identifying synthetic lethal interactions within the MMR pathway . In particular , increased oxidative damage ( by methotrexate exposure or PINK1 silencing [Martin et al . , 2011] ) and interference with the base excision repair ( BER ) pathway ( by DNA polymerase γ or β inhibition [Martin et al . , 2010] ) can sensitize MMR-deficient tumors . Until now , these findings failed , however , to translate into clinically effective treatment options . Alternatively , as highlighted above , secondary mutations occurring because of MMR-deficiency may also critically determine therapeutic efficacy ( Dorard et al . , 2011 ) . These secondary mutation spectra have , however , been poorly characterized , mainly because studies often focused at one or a few reporter loci , or exclusively on mutations at known hotspot sequences . More recently , the first whole-exome sequencing of MMR-deficient tumors was performed , highlighting the clearly distinct mutational landscape of these tumors ( TCGA , 2012 ) , whereas at the whole-genome level , Kim et al . ( 2013 ) revealed overrepresentation of MSI in euchromatic and intronic regions compared to heterochromatic and intergenic regions . To generate a more comprehensive picture of the mutation spectra arising in MMR-deficient tumors , and in particular , to interpret their clinical relevance with respect to diagnostically assessing MSI and therapeutically targeting MMR-deficient tumors , we sequenced another comprehensive set of MMR-deficient tumors . In particular , whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing was applied to 5 and 28 tumor–normal pairs , of which respectively 3 and 22 were MMR-deficient . 
Light-inducible dimerization protein modules enable precise temporal and spatial control of biological processes in non-invasive fashion . Among them , Magnets are small modules engineered from the Neurospora crassa photoreceptor Vivid by orthogonalizing the homodimerization interface into complementary heterodimers . Both Magnets components , which are well-tolerated as protein fusion partners , are photoreceptors requiring simultaneous photoactivation to interact , enabling high spatiotemporal confinement of dimerization with a single excitation wavelength . However , Magnets require concatemerization for efficient responses and cell preincubation at 28°C to be functional . Here we overcome these limitations by engineering an optimized Magnets pair requiring neither concatemerization nor low temperature preincubation . We validated these ‘enhanced’ Magnets ( eMags ) by using them to rapidly and reversibly recruit proteins to subcellular organelles , to induce organelle contacts , and to reconstitute OSBP-VAP ER-Golgi tethering implicated in phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate transport and metabolism . eMags represent a very effective tool to optogenetically manipulate physiological processes over whole cells or in small subcellular volumes .  Macromolecular interactions between and amongst proteins and organelles mediate a considerable amount of biochemical signaling processes . A principal method of testing the physiological significance of such interactions is to drive their association with a user-supplied stimulus such as light or drugs . Typically , two different components , each fused to a specific protein , come together ( ‘heterodimerize’ ) to reconstitute a given protein-protein interaction following addition of a small molecule ( DeRose et al . , 2013; Putyrski and Schultz , 2012; Spencer et al . , 1993 ) or upon light illumination ( Losi et al . , 2018; Rost et al . , 2017 ) . Light offers much greater spatial and temporal resolution than drugs , and as such , optogenetic dimerizers are generally used to probe phenomena at cellular and subcellular scales . At the organism scale , light is much less invasive but suffers from penetration issues . Photodimerizers have been successfully used to manipulate a variety of cellular processes , including signaling networks ( Gasser et al . , 2014; Grusch et al . , 2014; Guglielmi et al . , 2015; Idevall-Hagren et al . , 2012; Toettcher et al . , 2013; Toettcher et al . , 2011; Wu et al . , 2009 ) organelle trafficking ( van Bergeijk et al . , 2015; Duan et al . , 2015 ) , nuclear import/export ( Lerner et al . , 2018; Niopek et al . , 2016; Niopek et al . , 2014 ) , cytoskeletal dynamics ( van Haren et al . , 2018 ) , and phase separation ( Bracha et al . , 2018; Dine et al . , 2018; Shin et al . , 2017 ) , among others . Both natural and synthetic photoswitches ( Guntas et al . , 2015; Losi et al . , 2018; Lungu et al . , 2012; Rost et al . , 2017; Strickland et al . , 2012 ) have been used for these studies , each with its own advantages and drawbacks . Limitations of existing systems include necessity of adding exogenous cofactors ( Levskaya et al . , 2009 ) , large size adversely affecting function of targeted proteins ( Kaberniuk et al . , 2016; Kennedy et al . , 2010; Levskaya et al . , 2009; Yazawa et al . , 2009 ) , non-trivial levels of basal dimerization in the dark ( Guntas et al . , 2015; Hallett et al . , 2016; Nijenhuis et al . , 2020; Zimmerman et al . , 2016 ) , poor light-dependent dimerization efficiency ( Kawano et al . , 2015; Strickland et al . , 2012 ) , and improper homo- , instead of heterodimerization ( Bugaj et al . , 2013; Che et al . , 2015; Duan et al . , 2017; Taslimi et al . , 2016 ) . One popular photodimerizer pair is ‘Magnets’ , engineered from the Neurospora crassa Vivid photoreceptor , which comprises an N-terminal Ncap domain responsible for homodimerization and a C-terminal light-oxygen-voltage-sensing ( LOV ) domain ( Kawano et al . , 2015 ) . Magnets employ the ubiquitous cofactor flavin adenine dinucleotide ( FAD ) as the light-sensing moiety . The Magnets pair was engineered from the Vivid homodimer by introducing complementary charges , giving rise to nMag ( negative Magnet ) and pMag ( positive Magnet ) . The two Magnets components are quite small ( 150 aa ) for photodimerizers , exhibit relatively fast association and dissociation kinetics , and function when fused to a broad range of proteins , including peripheral and intrinsic membrane proteins ( Benedetti et al . , 2018; Kawano et al . , 2016; Kawano et al . , 2015 ) . Furthermore , heterodimerization of Magnets requires light-dependent activation of both components , rather than just one . This property results in low levels of background activity and allows induction of dimer formation with single-wavelength excitation in small cytoplasmic volumes ( Benedetti et al . , 2018 ) . However , the Magnets system has two prominent shortcomings . First , the low thermodynamic stability of the Magnets components precludes their proper expression and folding at 37°C . Thus , they cannot be used in mammals . When used in cultured mammalian cells they require a preincubation at low temperature ( 28°C ) for 12 hr to allow expression and folding . Second , as the Magnets components heterodimerize with low efficiency , robust activation requires concatemerization ( Furuya et al . , 2017; Kawano et al . , 2015 ) , which may affect trafficking , motility and function of target proteins , create vector payload constraints , and give rise to recombination and/or silencing of the sequence repeats . Here , we overcome these limitations of the Magnets by structure-guided protein engineering and validation by cellular assays . The resulting reagents , ‘enhanced Magnets’ ( eMags ) , have greater thermal stability and dimerization efficiency , as well as faster association and dissociation kinetics . We confirmed their effectiveness in a variety of applications including protein recruitment to different organelles , the generation/expansion of organelle contact sites , and the rapid and reversible reconstitution of VAP-dependent inter-organelle tethers that have key regulatory functions in lipid transport . 
Ribosome stalling during translation has recently been shown to cause neurodegeneration , yet the signaling pathways triggered by stalled elongation complexes are unknown . To investigate these pathways we analyzed the brain of C57BL/6J-Gtpbp2nmf205-/- mice in which neuronal elongation complexes are stalled at AGA codons due to deficiencies in a tRNAArgUCU tRNA and GTPBP2 , a mammalian ribosome rescue factor . Increased levels of phosphorylation of eIF2α ( Ser51 ) were detected prior to neurodegeneration in these mice and transcriptome analysis demonstrated activation of ATF4 , a key transcription factor in the integrated stress response ( ISR ) pathway . Genetic experiments showed that this pathway was activated by the eIF2α kinase , GCN2 , in an apparent deacylated tRNA-independent fashion . Further we found that the ISR attenuates neurodegeneration in C57BL/6J-Gtpbp2nmf205-/- mice , underscoring the importance of cellular and stress context on the outcome of activation of this pathway . These results demonstrate the critical interplay between translation elongation and initiation in regulating neuron survival during cellular stress .  Protein translation cycles through the phases of initiation , elongation , termination , and ribosome recycling . Translation has been thought to be predominantly regulated at the initiation step in which the 40S small ribosome subunit , preloaded with Met-tRNAi , binds to the 5’ end of mRNA . This complex then scans the mRNA for the AUG initiation codon where the 60S large ribosome subunit joins to form the 80S monosome ( Aitken and Lorsch , 2012; Hinnebusch , 2014 ) . A major control point of initiation is the reversible phosphorylation of the eukaryotic initiation factor 2 ( eIF2 ) , which in its active form binds GTP and Met-tRNAiMet and delivers the initiator tRNA to the 40S subunit of the ribosome ( Baird and Wek , 2012; Donnelly et al . , 2013 ) . A variety of stress responses regulate translation initiation by converging on phosphorylation of Ser51 of the α subunit of eIF2 , which prevents formation of the ternary complex and thus translation initiation ( Dalton et al . , 2012 ) . In addition to globally repressing translation , phosphorylation of eIF2α also enhances translation of specific mRNAs with open reading frames in their 5’ leaders , such as ATF4 ( Lu et al . , 2004; Vattem and Wek , 2004 ) . This transcription factor promotes transcription of genes involved in a wide range of adaptive functions including amino acid metabolism , redox control , and translational control ( Harding et al . , 2003; Huang et al . , 2009; Kilberg et al . , 2012 ) . The eIF2α subunit is the common target of four protein kinases , the activation of which is induced by distinct and specific extracellular and intracellular stresses . PKR-like ER kinase ( PERK , EIF2AK3 ) is generally activated by the accumulation of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum ( Ron and Harding , 2012; Zhao and Ackerman , 2006 ) . Heme-regulated inhibitor ( HRI , EIF2AK1 ) and protein kinase R ( PKR , EIF2AK2 ) are activated in erythroid cells by heme deprivation and viral infections , respectively ( Chen , 2014; Marchal et al . , 2014 ) . Finally , GCN2 ( General Control Non-derepressible 2 , EIF2AK4 ) is activated by low intracellular levels of amino acids ( Castilho et al . , 2014 ) . Amino acid deficiency results in an increase of deacylated tRNA species , which bind the histidyl-tRNA synthetase-related domain of GCN2 and the C-terminus , domains that are essential for GCN2 activation ( Dong et al . , 2000; Wek et al . , 1995; Zhu et al . , 1996 ) . Elongation has recently emerged as a translation phase that is also subject to elaborate regulatory and surveillance mechanisms ( Richter and Coller , 2015 ) . During elongation the ribosome moves in a codon-dependent fashion down the mRNA while amino acids are cyclically presented to the A site of ribosomes by EF-1/EF-T-bound aminoacylated tRNAs and added to the nascent peptide chain by the formation of peptide bonds . The rate of elongation is a function of ribosome transit rate , i . e . the time the translating ribosome spends on each codon , which is influenced by the secondary structure of the mRNA , nascent peptide:ribosome interactions , as well as codon identity and the availability of properly modified , cognate tRNAs for these codons ( Chen et al . , 2013; Ishimura et al . , 2014; Ito and Chiba , 2013; Koutmou et al . , 2015; Lu and Deutsch , 2008; Nedialkova and Leidel , 2015; Quax et al . , 2015; Wen et al . , 2008 ) . Elongation rates are now considered important factors in gene expression that determine the fate of mRNA undergoing translation and the functioning of the nascent proteins ( Elvekrog and Walter , 2015; Inada , 2013; Pelechano et al . , 2015; Presnyak et al . , 2015; Quax et al . , 2015; Sherman and Qian , 2013 ) . Pausing of translating ribosomes can be induced by cellular stress including temperature and oxidative stress ( Knight et al . , 2015; Liu et al . , 2013; Shalgi et al . , 2013; Zhong et al . , 2015 ) . Furthermore , misregulation of elongation may contribute to disease pathology resulting in neurological dysfunction such as observed in Fragile X syndrome ( Chen et al . , 2014; Darnell et al . , 2011; Udagawa et al . , 2013 ) . Recently we reported that ribosome stalling is intimately associated with cerebellar and retinal degeneration in the C57BL6/J ( B6J ) -nmf205 mutant mouse ( Ishimura et al . , 2014 ) . In this mouse model , two mutations are necessary to induce neuron loss: a loss of function mutation ( Gtpbp2nmf205-/- ) in a translational GTPase GTPBP2 ( guanosine triphosphate-binding protein 2 ) and a hypomorphic mutation in the nervous system-specific n-Tr20 ( nTRtct5 ) tRNAArgUCU gene . Ribosomal profiling of cerebella from mice with the n-Tr20 mutation revealed an increase in ribosome occupancy at AGA codons that dramatically increased in the absence of GTPBP2 . These studies demonstrated that GTPBP2 likely functions as a ribosome rescue factor and that ribosome stalling , i . e . abnormally long ribosome transit rates , could lead to neuron death . Recently , a mutation in the GTPBP2 gene was suggested to underlie cerebellar and retinal degeneration and intellectual disability in humans , supporting an essential role of GTPBP2 in neuronal homeostasis ( Jaberi et al . , 2015 ) . Here , we take advantage of unique mouse models with the Gtpbp2nmf205-/- mutation to assess the signaling events that are triggered by ribosome stalling . We show that GCN2 is activated in the B6J-Gtpbp2nmf205-/- mutant brain in a tRNAdeacyl-independent manner prior to the onset of neurodegeneration . Activation of this kinase results in eIF2α phosphorylation and induction of ATF4-target genes in the cerebellum and hippocampus of B6J-Gtpbp2nmf205-/- mice . Further , our genetic studies demonstrate that GCN2 activation functions to attenuate neurodegeneration in the B6J-Gtpbp2nmf205-/- brain . These results suggest that ribosome stalling activates GCN2 as a previously unknown regulatory mechanism that links the elongation and initiation steps of translation . 
Being taller is associated with enhanced longevity , and higher education and earnings . We reanalysed 1472 population-based studies , with measurement of height on more than 18 . 6 million participants to estimate mean height for people born between 1896 and 1996 in 200 countries . The largest gain in adult height over the past century has occurred in South Korean women and Iranian men , who became 20 . 2 cm ( 95% credible interval 17 . 5–22 . 7 ) and 16 . 5 cm ( 13 . 3–19 . 7 ) taller , respectively . In contrast , there was little change in adult height in some sub-Saharan African countries and in South Asia over the century of analysis . The tallest people over these 100 years are men born in the Netherlands in the last quarter of 20th century , whose average heights surpassed 182 . 5 cm , and the shortest were women born in Guatemala in 1896 ( 140 . 3 cm; 135 . 8–144 . 8 ) . The height differential between the tallest and shortest populations was 19-20 cm a century ago , and has remained the same for women and increased for men a century later despite substantial changes in the ranking of countries .  Being taller is associated with enhanced longevity , lower risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes and cardiovascular and respiratory diseases , and higher risk of some cancers ( Paajanen et al . , 2010; Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration , 2012; Green et al . , 2011; Nelson et al . , 2015; Batty et al . , 2010; World Cancer Research Fund / American Institute for Cancer Research , 2007; 2010; 2011; 2012; 2014a; 2014b; Nüesch et al . , 2015; Davies et al . , 2015; Zhang et al . , 2015; Kozuki et al . , 2015; Black et al . , 2008 ) . There is also evidence that taller people on average have higher education , earnings , and possibly even social position ( Adair et al . , 2013; Stulp et al . , 2015; Barker et al . , 2005; Strauss and Thomas , 1998; Chen and Zhou , 2007; Case and Paxson , 2008 ) . Although height is one of the most heritable human traits ( Fisher , 1919; Lettre , 2011 ) , cross-population differences are believed to be related to non-genetic , environmental factors . Of these , foetal growth ( itself related to maternal size , nutrition and environmental exposures ) , and nutrition and infections during childhood and adolescence are particularly important determinants of height during adulthood ( Cole , 2000; Silventoinen et al . , 2000; Dubois et al . , 2012; Haeffner et al . , 2002; Sørensen et al . , 1999; Victora et al . , 2008; Eveleth and Tanner , 1990; Tanner , 1962; Tanner , 1992; Bogin , 2013 ) . Information on height , and its trends , can therefore help understand the health impacts of childhood and adolescent nutrition and environment , and of their social , economic , and political determinants , on both non-communicable diseases ( NCDs ) and on neonatal health and survival in the next generation ( Cole , 2000; Tanner , 1992; Tanner , 1987 ) . Trends in men’s height have been analysed in Europe , the USA , and Japan for up to 250 years , using data on conscripts , voluntary military personnel , convicts , or slaves ( Cole , 2000; Floud et al . , 1990; Fogel et al . , 1983; Schmidt et al . , 1995; Floud et al . , 2011; Tanner et al . , 1982; Hatton and Bray , 2010; Tanner , 1981; Facchini and Gualdi-Russo , 1982 ) . There are fewer historical data for women , and for other regions where focus has largely been on children and where adult data tend to be reported at one point in time or over short periods ( Subramanian et al . , 2011; Grasgruber et al . , 2014; Baten and Blum , 2012; Deaton , 2007; Mamidi et al . , 2011; van Zanden et al . , 2014 ) . In this paper , we pooled worldwide population-based data to estimate height in adulthood for men and women born over a whole century throughout the world . 
The rates of opioid overdose in the United States quadrupled between 1999 and 2017 , reaching a staggering 130 deaths per day . This health epidemic demands innovative solutions that require uncovering the key brain areas and cell types mediating the cause of overdose— opioid-induced respiratory depression . Here , we identify two primary changes to murine breathing after administering opioids . These changes implicate the brainstem’s breathing circuitry which we confirm by locally eliminating the µ-Opioid receptor . We find the critical brain site is the preBötzinger Complex , where the breathing rhythm originates , and use genetic tools to reveal that just 70–140 neurons in this region are responsible for its sensitivity to opioids . Future characterization of these neurons may lead to novel therapies that prevent respiratory depression while sparing analgesia .  Nearly 400 , 000 people in the United States died from a drug overdose involving a prescription or illicit opioid between 1999 and 2017 ( Scholl et al . , 2018 ) . This epidemic is not unique to the United States and with the increasing distribution of highly potent synthetic opioids like fentanyl , it has become a global public health emergency ( Rudd et al . , 2016 ) . Death from opioid overdose results from slow and shallow breathing , also known as opioid induced respiratory depression ( OIRD , Pattinson , 2008 ) . Like humans , breathing in mice is severely depressed by opioids and this response is eliminated when the µ-Opioid receptor ( Oprm1 ) is globally deleted ( Dahan et al . , 2001 ) . Oprm1 is broadly expressed , in both the central and peripheral nervous systems , including sites that could modulate breathing such as: the cerebral cortex , brainstem respiratory control centers , primary motor neurons , solitary nucleus , and oxygen sensing afferents ( Mansour et al . , 1994; Kirby and McQueen , 1986 ) . Therefore , either one or multiple sites could be mediating the depressive effects of opioids on breathing . Indeed , multiple brain regions have been shown to independently slow breathing after local injection of opioid agonists ( Kirby and McQueen , 1986; Montandon et al . , 2011; Mustapic et al . , 2010; Prkic et al . , 2012 ) . Although informative , doubts remain for which of these sites are necessary and sufficient to induce OIRD from systemic opioids for three reasons . First , injection of opioid agonists or antagonists into candidate areas modulates µ-opioid receptors on the cell body ( post-synaptic ) as well as receptors on incoming terminals ( pre-synaptic ) . Second , these studies necessitate anesthetized and reduced animal preparations , which alter brain activity in many of the candidate Oprm1 expressing sites . And third , there is not a standard and quantitative definition for how breathing changes in OIRD , and this makes comparing studies that use different breathing metrics measured in different experimental paradigms challenging . To address these limitations , we conducted a detailed quantitative analysis of OIRD in awake animals and identify two key changes to the breath that drive the depressive effects of opioids . These two metrics thereafter define OIRD in our study and can serve as a rubric for others . We then locally eliminate the µ-opioid receptor in awake mice , disambiguating pre and post-synaptic effects , and use these metrics to define two key brain sites that mediate OIRD . Recently , a similar approach demonstrated some role for these sites in OIRD ( Varga et al . , 2020 ) . Among these two sites in our study , we find that one is dominant and driven by just 140 critical neurons in vitro and , importantly , these neurons are not required for opioid-induced analgesia , suggesting a neutral target for developing safer opioids or rescue strategies for opioid overdose . 
Human hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) infection and HBV-related diseases remain a major public health problem . Individuals coinfected with its satellite hepatitis D virus ( HDV ) have more severe disease . Cellular entry of both viruses is mediated by HBV envelope proteins . The pre-S1 domain of the large envelope protein is a key determinant for receptor ( s ) binding . However , the identity of the receptor ( s ) is unknown . Here , by using near zero distance photo-cross-linking and tandem affinity purification , we revealed that the receptor-binding region of pre-S1 specifically interacts with sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide ( NTCP ) , a multiple transmembrane transporter predominantly expressed in the liver . Silencing NTCP inhibited HBV and HDV infection , while exogenous NTCP expression rendered nonsusceptible hepatocarcinoma cells susceptible to these viral infections . Moreover , replacing amino acids 157–165 of nonfunctional monkey NTCP with the human counterpart conferred its ability in supporting both viral infections . Our results demonstrate that NTCP is a functional receptor for HBV and HDV .  Approximately 2 billion people have been infected with human hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) worldwide . Over 350 million people currently are chronically infected and are at high risk for progression to cirrhosis , liver failure , or cancer . More than 50% of liver cancers worldwide are attributed to HBV infection . HBV-related liver diseases remain a major public health problem , causing approximately 1 million deaths per year . Individuals coinfected with HBV and HDV are at greater risk for rapid progression and severe disease ( Lavanchy , 2004; Hughes et al . , 2011 ) . Despite its enormous medical and social relevance , progress in HBV research has been impeded by the lack of understanding of HBV entry by which the virus specifically infects human liver cells . HBV is an enveloped virus containing a small genome of 3 . 2 kb of partially double-stranded DNA encoding four overlapping reading frames . The HBV envelope consists of the small ( S ) , middle ( M ) , and large ( L ) envelope proteins , which are multiple transmembrane spanners sharing the same C-terminal domain corresponding to the S protein but differing at their N-terminal domains ( Figure 1A ) ( Heermann et al . , 1984; Seeger et al . , 2007 ) . HDV is a small satellite RNA virus of HBV carrying all three HBV envelope proteins and can only propagate when coexisting with HBV . The mechanism of viral entry of HDV is believed to be similar to that of HBV , and HDV has been used as a surrogate for studying HBV infection at the entry level ( Barrera et al . , 2004; Sureau , 2006; Hughes et al . , 2011 ) . The L protein and integrity of S protein are critical for HBV and HDV infections . The pre-S1 domain of the L protein is a key determinant for entry of both HBV and HDV and is believed to mediate viral interaction with the cellular receptor ( s ) on hepatocytes ( Gripon et al . , 1995; Le Seyec et al . , 1999; Chouteau et al . , 2001; Blanchet and Sureau , 2007; Le Duff et al . , 2009 ) . Although a number of HBV receptor candidates have been reported in the past , none has been confirmed to be functional in supporting viral infection ( Glebe and Urban , 2007 ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 00049 . 003Figure 1 . Developing photoreactive peptide ligands and an antibody for identifying pre-S1 binding partner ( s ) by zero distance cross-linking . ( A ) Schematic diagram of HBV envelope proteins and N-terminal peptides of pre-S1 domain . Pre-S1 ( 2-47 ) : 2-47th residues of the pre-S1 domain of the L protein of HBV ( S472 strain , genotype C ) . Residue numbering is based on genotype D . Asterisk indicates highly conserved residues among genotypes . Epitope of mAb 2D3 was shaded in gray . ( B ) Effect of alterations of the critical N-terminal residues within pre-S1 region of L protein on HDV binding to PTHs . Both wild-type ( WT ) and mutant HDV virions carry HBV envelope proteins . Mutant HDV carries point mutation as indicated in the pre-S1 region of L protein . PTHs were incubated with HDV at 16°C for 4 hr and followed by extensive wash; bound virions were quantified by qRT-PCR for virus genome RNA copy , and the data are presented as percentage of virus binding , the binding of WT virus was set as 100% . ( C ) Myr-47/WTb bait peptide dose-dependently inhibited HDV virion binding . The binding assay was performed similarly as panel B except that PTHs were pre-incubated with indicated peptides . ( D ) Inhibition of viral infection by the photoreactive peptides . Left: PTHs were pre-incubated with peptides at indicated concentrations at 37°C for 1 hr and then inoculated with HDV virus . Viral infection was examined by measuring viral RNA in infected cells with qRT-PCR 6 days post-infection ( dpi ) . Data are presented as percentage HDV infection . Right: peptides at indicated concentrations were added to PTHs before HBV inoculation . The cell culture medium was replenished every 2 days . Secreted viral antigen HBeAg was measured by ELISA on 6 dpi , and the data are presented as percentage of that in the absence of peptides . ( E ) Antibody 2D3 recognizes residues 19–33 of pre-S1 . Peptide NC36 ( aa 4–36 of pre-S1 , NLSVPNPLGFFPDHQLDPAFGANSNNPDWDFNP ) conjugated with keyhole limpet hemocyanin ( KLH ) was the immunogen peptide for generating mouse mAb 2D3 . Binding activity of 2D3 with full-length pre-S1 protein was measured by ELISA in the presence of competition peptides at indicated concentrations . LD15 peptide compassing residues 19–33 of pre-S1 inhibited 2D3 binding in a dose-dependent manner , indicating that 2D3 recognizes an epitope within this region . HBV: hepatitis B virus; mAb: monoclonal antibody; HDV: hepatitis D virus; PTH: primary Tupaia hepatocytes; HBeAg: HBV e antigen . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 00049 . 003 An N-terminal myristoylated peptide corresponding to amino acids ( aa ) 2–48 of the pre-S1 domain of the L protein has been shown to effectively block both HBV and HDV infections of hepatocytes through engaging an unknown cellular component , most likely a viral receptor ( Barrera et al . , 2005; Glebe et al . , 2005; Gripon et al . , 2005; Engelke et al . , 2006; Schulze et al . , 2010 ) . In the current study , by using a synthetic modified peptide originating from the native aa 2–48 lipopeptide ( Myr-47/WT ) as a probe and employing a series of biochemical approaches and virological assays , we identified and confirmed that sodium taurocholate cotransporting polypeptide ( NTCP ) , a multiple transmembrane transporter mainly expressed in the liver , interacts specifically with the L proteins of HBV and HDV and functions as a common receptor for both viruses . 
The global health burden due to sepsis and the associated cytokine storm is substantial . While early intervention has improved survival during the cytokine storm , those that survive can enter a state of chronic immunoparalysis defined by transient lymphopenia and functional deficits of surviving cells . Memory CD8 T cells provide rapid cytolysis and cytokine production following re-encounter with their cognate antigen to promote long-term immunity , and CD8 T cell impairment due to sepsis can pre-dispose individuals to re-infection . While the acute influence of sepsis on memory CD8 T cells has been characterized , if and to what extent pre-existing memory CD8 T cells recover remains unknown . Here , we observed that central memory CD8 T cells ( TCM ) from septic patients proliferate more than those from healthy individuals . Utilizing LCMV immune mice and a CLP model to induce sepsis , we demonstrated that TCM proliferation is associated with numerical recovery of pathogen-specific memory CD8 T cells following sepsis-induced lymphopenia . This increased proliferation leads to changes in composition of memory CD8 T cell compartment and altered tissue localization . Further , memory CD8 T cells from sepsis survivors have an altered transcriptional profile and chromatin accessibility indicating long-lasting T cell intrinsic changes . The sepsis-induced changes in the composition of the memory CD8 T cell pool and transcriptional landscape culminated in altered T cell function and reduced capacity to control L . monocytogenes infection . Thus , sepsis leads to long-term alterations in memory CD8 T cell phenotype , protective function and localization potentially changing host capacity to respond to re-infection .  Dysregulated systemic inflammatory responses define septic events and the associated cytokine storm , which is comprised of both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines ( CDC , 2020; Singer et al . , 2016 ) . Sepsis leads to a substantial global health and economic burden wherein nine people develop sepsis every 6 s and two of those individuals die ( Rudd et al . , 2020 ) . In the United States alone the cost to treat sepsis is >$20 billion with a mortality rate of ~20 % ( CDC , 2020 ) . While a 20 % mortality rate is high , it is also a vast improvement over the last 30 years where mortality had been at ~50 % ( Dombrovskiy et al . , 2007; Gaieski et al . , 2013 ) . This reduction in mortality rate has largely been through early intervention as the complexity of the cytokine storm has , dishearteningly , lead to the failure of >100 phase II and III clinical trials targeting the pro-inflammatory aspects of the cytokine storm ( Marshall , 2014 ) . Yet , even as survival of the cytokine storm has increased it has also become apparent that previously septic individuals are still at increased risk for mortality , this defines the sepsis-induced immunoparalysis state ( Delano and Ward , 2016a; Delano and Ward , 2016b; Dombrovskiy et al . , 2007; Donnelly et al . , 2015 ) . Sepsis-induced immunoparalysis is characterized by an increased susceptibility to both new and previously encountered unrelated infections and cancer ( Danahy et al . , 2019; Jensen et al . , 2018a; Kutza et al . , 1998; Walton et al . , 2014 ) . Alternately , sepsis-induced immunoparalysis reduces susceptibility to development of autoimmunity , cumulatively demonstrating immunologic impairment ( Jensen et al . , 2020 ) . These profound impairments are sufficient to reduce the 5 year survival of septic cohorts , relative to non-septic cohorts; consequently , the majority of sepsis-associated mortality is late mortality secondary to the cytokine storm ( Dombrovskiy et al . , 2007; Donnelly et al . , 2015; Gaieski et al . , 2013 ) . This immunologic impairment is typified by transient lymphopenia and reduced capacity of various surviving lymphocyte populations to perform effector function ( Hotchkiss et al . , 2016; Hotchkiss et al . , 2013 ) , including CD4 ( Cabrera-Perez et al . , 2014; Cabrera-Perez et al . , 2015; Chen et al . , 2017; Jensen et al . , 2020; Martin et al . , 2020; Sjaastad et al . , 2020b ) and CD8 T cells ( Condotta et al . , 2013; Danahy et al . , 2017; Danahy et al . , 2019; Duong et al . , 2014; Serbanescu et al . , 2016; Xie et al . , 2019 ) , B cells ( Hotchkiss et al . , 2001; Sjaastad et al . , 2018; Unsinger et al . , 2010 ) , NK cells ( Hou et al . , 2014; Jensen et al . , 2021b; Jensen et al . , 2018b; Souza-Fonseca-Guimaraes et al . , 2012 ) , and dendritic cells ( DCs ) ( Poehlmann et al . , 2009; Roquilly et al . , 2017; Strother et al . , 2016 ) . We and others have characterized numerous impairments early after sepsis induction; however , the extent to which those cell populations recover in number and function remains largely unknown . Specifically , sepsis-induced lymphopenia impacts both memory and naïve CD8 T cells early after sepsis ( Condotta et al . , 2015; Condotta et al . , 2013; Duong et al . , 2014; Jensen et al . , 2018a; Markwart et al . , 2014 ) . Additionally , those memory CD8 T cells that survive the cytokine storm are less capable of undergoing antigen-dependent effector function and responding to inflammatory cues ( bystander activation ) . These intrinsic impairments , in conjunction with the numeric deficits imposed by the lymphopenic environment , reduce host capacity to control both infection ( i . e . viral and bacterial ) and cancer ( Danahy et al . , 2017; Danahy et al . , 2019; Duong et al . , 2014; Gurung et al . , 2011 ) . Additionally , extrinsic factors , such as reduced integrin expression on endothelia ( Danahy et al . , 2017 ) or altered monocyte/ macrophage activity ( Jensen et al . , 2021a; Roquilly et al . , 2020 ) , can influence CD8 T cell capacity to migrate into sites of infection . Even when T cells are spared from the cytokine storm by vascular exclusion ( i . e . tissue residence ) CD8 T cell-mediated protection can be hampered by inability of other cells ( e . g . endothelia ) to respond to the inflammatory cues provided by CD8 T cells ( Danahy et al . , 2017 ) . Yet , these impairments are largely characterized proximal to the septic insult . However , sepsis-induced impairments are long-lasting and may not be consistent across time ( Jensen et al . , 2018a ) . Specifically , the lymphopenic environment is transient yet the ability to control cancer can remain reduced long after numeric recovery is complete ( Danahy et al . , 2019 ) . Thus , while there does not appear to be preferential susceptibility to sepsis , if and how different subsets of memory CD8 T cells recover may dramatically shape how hosts respond to pathogen re-encounter and thereby contribute to the immunoparalysis state . Here , using samples from septic patients and well described experimental models we demonstrate increased proliferation of CD8 T cells ( particularly central memory cells [TCM] ) in septic patients and mice after cecal ligation and puncture ( CLP ) -induced sepsis , relative to non-septic controls . As a consequence of this increased proliferation , there is a remodeling of the memory CD8 T cell pool . This compositional change in turn leads to lasting changes in the localization , function , and protective capacity of pre-existing memory CD8 T cells . 
Long INterspersed Element-1 ( LINE-1 or L1 ) retrotransposition poses a mutagenic threat to human genomes . Human cells have therefore evolved strategies to regulate L1 retrotransposition . The APOBEC3 ( A3 ) gene family consists of seven enzymes that catalyze deamination of cytidine nucleotides to uridine nucleotides ( C-to-U ) in single-strand DNA substrates . Among these enzymes , APOBEC3A ( A3A ) is the most potent inhibitor of L1 retrotransposition in cultured cell assays . However , previous characterization of L1 retrotransposition events generated in the presence of A3A did not yield evidence of deamination . Thus , the molecular mechanism by which A3A inhibits L1 retrotransposition has remained enigmatic . Here , we have used in vitro and in vivo assays to demonstrate that A3A can inhibit L1 retrotransposition by deaminating transiently exposed single-strand DNA that arises during the process of L1 integration . These data provide a mechanistic explanation of how the A3A cytidine deaminase protein can inhibit L1 retrotransposition .  Long INterspersed Element-1 ( LINE-1 or L1 ) derived sequences comprise roughly 17% of human genomic DNA ( Lander et al . , 2001 ) . The vast majority of L1 sequences are 5′ truncated , internally rearranged , or are inactivated by mutations and are unable to mobilize ( i . e . , retrotranspose ) to new genomic locations ( Grimaldi et al . , 1984; Lander et al . , 2001 ) . However , it is estimated that the average human genome contains 80–100 retrotransposition-competent ( i . e . , active ) L1s ( Sassaman et al . , 1997; Brouha et al . , 2003 ) . Active human L1s are approximately 6 kb in length and contain a 5′ untranslated region ( UTR ) , two open reading frames ( ORF1 and ORF2 ) , and a 3′ UTR that terminates in a poly ( A ) tail ( Scott et al . , 1987; Dombroski et al . , 1991 ) . ORF1 encodes an ∼40 kDa protein ( ORF1p ) that binds L1 RNA as a trimer ( Holmes et al . , 1992; Hohjoh and Singer , 1996; Martin et al . , 2003; Khazina and Weichenrieder , 2009 ) . ORF1p also has nucleic acid chaperone activity ( Martin and Bushman , 2001; Khazina and Weichenrieder , 2009 ) . ORF2 encodes an ∼150 kDa protein ( ORF2p ) ( Ergun et al . , 2004; Doucet et al . , 2010; Taylor et al . , 2013b ) with DNA endonuclease ( Feng et al . , 1996 ) and reverse transcriptase ( Mathias et al . , 1991 ) activities . The development of a cultured cell assay definitively demonstrated that both ORF1p and ORF2p are required for efficient L1 retrotransposition ( Moran et al . , 1996 ) . Subsequent biochemical studies revealed that L1 retrotransposition occurs by a mechanism termed target-site primed reverse transcription ( TPRT ) ( Luan et al . , 1993; Feng et al . , 1996; Cost et al . , 2002; Kulpa and Moran , 2006 ) . Ongoing L1 retrotransposition events contribute to intra- and inter-individual genetic variation and , on occasion , can disrupt gene function , leading to sporadic genetic diseases ( Beck et al . , 2011; Hancks and Kazazian , 2012 ) . Given the mutagenic potential of active L1s , it is not surprising that host cells have evolved multiple mechanisms to restrict L1 retrotransposition ( Levin and Moran , 2011 ) . Previous studies revealed that over-expression of the wild-type ( WT ) APOBEC3A cytidine deaminase protein ( A3A ) , but not deaminase-defective A3A mutants , could potently inhibit L1 retrotransposition in cultured human cells ( Chen et al . , 2006; Muckenfuss et al . , 2006; Bogerd et al . , 2006b; Kinomoto et al . , 2007; Niewiadomska et al . , 2007 ) . However , deamination events were not detected in L1 retrotransposition events generated in the presence of WT A3A ( Chen et al . , 2006; Muckenfuss et al . , 2006; Bogerd et al . , 2006b; Kinomoto et al . , 2007 ) . Thus , the molecular mechanism by which WT A3A inhibits L1 retrotransposition has remained a mystery . Here , we employ an in vitro assay ( L1 Element Amplification Protocol or LEAP ) that recapitulates the first strand cDNA synthesis step of the L1 integration to elucidate a mechanism for A3A-mediated inhibition of L1 retrotransposition . In LEAP reactions that include RNase H , an enzyme that specifically degrades the RNA strand of an RNA/DNA heteroduplex , we report that single-strand L1 cDNAs are rendered susceptible to A3A-mediated deamination . These data suggest that newly synthesized L1 cDNAs remain annealed to their mRNA templates after reverse transcription , protecting the L1 cDNA from deamination by A3A . We further demonstrate that engineered L1 retrotransposition events derived from cultured human cells that co-express A3A and the uracil DNA glycosylase inhibitor protein ( UGI ) contain strand-specific , A3A-mediated C-to-U deamination events . Together , these data indicate that A3A can inhibit L1 retrotransposition by deaminating transiently exposed single-strand DNA that arises during the process of L1 integration . Moreover , our results provide direct evidence that A3A can deaminate single-strand genomic DNA in human cells . 
Sensory experience plays an important role in shaping neural circuitry by affecting the synaptic connectivity and intrinsic properties of individual neurons . Identifying the molecular players responsible for converting external stimuli into altered neuronal output remains a crucial step in understanding experience-dependent plasticity and circuit function . Here , we investigate the role of the activity-regulated , non-canonical Ras-like GTPase Rem2 in visual circuit plasticity . We demonstrate that Rem2-/- mice fail to exhibit normal ocular dominance plasticity during the critical period . At the cellular level , our data establish a cell-autonomous role for Rem2 in regulating intrinsic excitability of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons , prior to changes in synaptic function . Consistent with these findings , both in vitro and in vivo recordings reveal increased spontaneous firing rates in the absence of Rem2 . Taken together , our data demonstrate that Rem2 is a key molecule that regulates neuronal excitability and circuit function in the context of changing sensory experience .  Ocular dominance ( OD ) plasticity in the mammalian visual system , induced by monocular eyelid suture , is one of the best-studied models of the influence of experience on neural circuit development . The current consensus view holds that OD plasticity is achieved through an ‘early-phase’ decrease in responsiveness to the deprived , contralateral eye through Hebbian-like LTD mechanisms ( Cooke and Bear , 2010; Crozier et al . , 2007; Kirkwood et al . , 1996; Rittenhouse et al . , 1999; Yoon et al . , 2009 ) , followed by a ‘late-phase’ homeostatically-regulated increase in responsiveness to the open , ipsilateral eye through synaptic scaling up and increases in intrinsic excitability ( Kaneko et al . , 2008b; Lambo and Turrigiano , 2013; Mrsic-Flogel et al . , 2007; Smith et al . , 2009 ) . While significant attention has been given to the role of synaptic plasticity mechanisms in regulating experience-dependent changes in circuit function ( Desai et al . , 2002; Maffei and Turrigiano , 2008; Turrigiano et al . , 1998 ) , far less is known about the contribution of altered intrinsic neuronal properties to this process . From crustaceans to mammals , neurons respond to decreased activity by modulating their ionic conductances in order to change their intrinsic excitability and re-establish an appropriate firing rate ( Aizenman et al . , 2003; Desai et al . , 1999; Liu et al . , 1998; Marder and Prinz , 2003; Pratt and Aizenman , 2007; Siegel et al . , 1994 ) . Underlying this homeostatic regulation of intrinsic excitability are activity-dependent changes in gene expression ( Dong et al . , 2006; Turrigiano , 2008 ) and recent modeling studies illustrate that the rate of calcium-dependent gene transcription serves as a central point of regulation underlying changes in intrinsic excitability and neuronal conductances ( O'Leary et al . , 2014 ) . Interestingly , this model posits the existence of a key regulator or ‘sensor’ molecule whose main function is to assess cell-wide activity levels , indicated by changes in Ca2+ influx , and implement downstream signaling mechanisms that alter intrinsic excitability ( Liu et al . , 1998; O'Leary et al . , 2014; Siegel et al . , 1994 ) . However , the identity of such sensor molecules and signaling pathways remains largely unknown . The activity-regulated Ras-like GTPase Rem2 is an excellent candidate to link the activity of a neural circuit with functional plasticity . Rem2 is a member of the Rad/Rem/Rem2/Gem/Kir ( RGK ) protein family , a Ras-related subfamily of small GTPases ( Finlin et al . , 2000 ) , whose expression and function are regulated by neuronal activity in response to calcium influx through voltage-gated calcium channels ( Ghiretti et al . , 2014 ) . Further , gene knockdown approaches in cultured cortical neurons and Xenopus laevis optic tectum established that Rem2 is a positive regulator of synapse formation and a negative regulator of dendritic complexity ( Ghiretti et al . , 2013; Ghiretti et al . , 2014; Ghiretti and Paradis , 2011; Moore et al . , 2013 ) , suggesting Rem2 may regulate structural plasticity in an activity-dependent manner . Because Rem2 expression and signaling is sensitive to neuronal activity levels ( Ghiretti et al . , 2013; Ghiretti et al . , 2014 ) , and Rem2 signaling regulates changes in gene expression ( Kenny et al . , 2017 ) , we hypothesized that Rem2 could be a key regulator of cortical plasticity mechanisms in the intact nervous system . To test this hypothesis , we generated Rem2 knockout mice to directly assess how Rem2 influences cortical plasticity in the mammalian visual system . We found that Rem2-/- mice exhibit a deficit in late-phase OD plasticity during the critical period , whereas early-phase OD plasticity and adult OD plasticity are normal . These functional deficits depend specifically on deletion of Rem2 from excitatory neurons in the cortex . At the cellular level , we found that Rem2-/- neurons exhibit altered regulation of synaptic function and increased intrinsic excitability . Further , using sparse deletion methods , we found that the effects on intrinsic excitability are cell-autonomous , and precede the effects on synaptic regulation . Consistent with the observed increase in intrinsic excitability , we demonstrated that Rem2 also induces changes in spontaneous firing rates both in vitro and in vivo . Taken together , thesedatasuggestthatRem2 providesanewunderstanding ofthemolecular processesthatcoordinate changes inintrinsicexcitability , spontaneous firing rates , synapse regulation , and ultimately circuit function . 
This is an analysis of how magnetic fields affect biological molecules and cells . It was prompted by a series of prominent reports regarding magnetism in biological systems . The first claims to have identified a protein complex that acts like a compass needle to guide magnetic orientation in animals ( Qin et al . , 2016 ) . Two other articles report magnetic control of membrane conductance by attaching ferritin to an ion channel protein and then tugging the ferritin or heating it with a magnetic field ( Stanley et al . , 2015; Wheeler et al . , 2016 ) . Here I argue that these claims conflict with basic laws of physics . The discrepancies are large: from 5 to 10 log units . If the reported phenomena do in fact occur , they must have causes entirely different from the ones proposed by the authors . The paramagnetic nature of protein complexes is found to seriously limit their utility for engineering magnetically sensitive cells .  There has been renewed interest recently in the effects of magnetic fields on biological cells . On the one hand we have the old puzzle of magnetosensation: How do organisms sense the Earth’s magnetic field for the purpose of navigation ? The biophysical basis for this ability is for the most part unresolved . On the other hand lies the promise of 'magnetogenetics': the dream of making neurons and other cells responsive to magnetic fields for the purpose of controlling their activity with ease . The two are closely linked , because uncovering Nature’s method for magnetosensation can point the way to effectively engineering magnetogenetics . The physical laws by which magnetic fields act on matter are taught to science students in college ( Feynman et al . , 1963 ) . Obviously those principles impose some constraints on what biological mechanisms are plausible candidates , for both magnetosensation and magnetogenetics . A recent spate of high-profile articles has put forward audacious proposals in this domain without any attempt at such reality checks . My goal here is to offer some calculations as a supplement to those articles , which makes them appear in a rather different light . These arguments should also help in evaluating future hypotheses and in engineering new molecular tools . 
Stem cells can self-renew , differentiate , or enter quiescence . Understanding how stem cells switch between these states is highly relevant for stem cell-based therapeutics . Drosophila neural progenitors ( neuroblasts ) have been an excellent model for studying self-renewal and differentiation , but quiescence remains poorly understood . In this study , we show that when neuroblasts enter quiescence , the differentiation factor Prospero is transiently detected in the neuroblast nucleus , followed by the establishment of a unique molecular profile lacking most progenitor and differentiation markers . The pulse of low level nuclear Prospero precedes entry into neuroblast quiescence even when the timing of quiescence is advanced or delayed by changing temporal identity factors . Furthermore , loss of Prospero prevents entry into quiescence , whereas a pulse of low level nuclear Prospero can drive proliferating larval neuroblasts into quiescence . We propose that Prospero levels distinguish three progenitor fates: absent for self-renewal , low for quiescence , and high for differentiation .  Quiescent stem cells preserve the stem cell pool for activation following disease or injury . Moreover , cancer stem cells can enter remission during treatment , possibly using mechanisms similar to stem cell quiescence , and re-initiate proliferation months to years later . Thus , studying stem cell quiescence may help design clinical approaches to prevent tumor dormancy and cancer recurrence , as well as to aid in activating stem cells for tissue repair . Drosophila neuroblasts have served as a model system for identifying conserved signaling pathways that regulate stem cell proliferation and quiescence ( Ebens et al . , 1993; Datta , 1995; Britton and Edgar , 1998; Doe et al . , 1998; Egger et al . , 2008; Tsuji et al . , 2008; Sousa-Nunes et al . , 2010; Homem and Knoblich , 2012; Weng and Cohen , 2012 ) . Drosophila neuroblasts delaminate from neuroectoderm during early embryogenesis , and then they go through multiple rounds of asymmetric cell division before exiting cell cycle at the end of embryogenesis; upon cell cycle exit , neuroblasts can undergo apoptosis ( Karcavitch and Doe , 2005; Maurange and Gould , 2005; Ulvklo et al . , 2012 ) or enter quiescence ( Truman and Bate , 1988; Datta , 1995; Tsuji et al . , 2008; Chell and Brand , 2010; Sousa-Nunes et al . , 2011 ) . During neuroblast asymmetric division , the scaffolding protein Miranda ( Mira ) is partitioned into the differentiating daughter cell , called a ganglion mother cell ( GMC ) , and it carries at least three cargo proteins: the translational repressors Staufen and Brain tumor ( Brat ) and the transcriptional repressor Prospero ( Hirata et al . , 1995; Broadus and Doe , 1997; Ikeshima-Kataoka et al . , 1997; Broadus et al . , 1998; Schuldt et al . , 1998; Shen et al . , 1998; Bello et al . , 2006; Betschinger et al . , 2006; Lee et al . , 2006 ) . In the GMC , Mira appears to be degraded and its cargo is released into the cytoplasm ( Staufen , Brat ) or the nucleus ( Prospero ) . Prospero is an atypical homeodomain protein that directly binds and represses progenitor and cell cycle genes to initiate GMC and neuronal differentiation ( Li and Vaessin , 2000; Choksi et al . , 2006 ) ; the mammalian ortholog Prox1 has a similar role in repressing cell cycle gene expression ( Dyer , 2003; Foskolou et al . , 2013 ) . In addition , keeping high levels of Prospero out of the neuroblast nucleus is essential to prevent neuroblast differentiation ( Choksi et al . , 2006; Cabernard and Doe , 2009; Bayraktar et al . , 2010 ) . In this study , we show that the Prospero differentiation factor is transiently detected at low levels in the neuroblast nucleus just prior to entry into quiescence . We find that loss of Prospero prevents entry into quiescence , whereas a pulse of low level nuclear Prospero drives proliferating larval neuroblasts into quiescence . We propose a model in which low levels of Prospero repress all cell cycle and progenitor genes except deadpan , whereas high levels of Prospero additionally repress deadpan to allow neural differentiation . 
Uncoating of the metastable HIV-1 capsid is a tightly regulated disassembly process required for release of the viral cDNA prior to nuclear import . To understand the intrinsic capsid disassembly pathway and how it can be modulated , we have developed a single-particle fluorescence microscopy method to follow the real-time uncoating kinetics of authentic HIV capsids in vitro immediately after permeabilizing the viral membrane . Opening of the first defect in the lattice is the rate-limiting step of uncoating , which is followed by rapid , catastrophic collapse . The capsid-binding inhibitor PF74 accelerates capsid opening but stabilizes the remaining lattice . In contrast , binding of a polyanion to a conserved arginine cluster in the lattice strongly delays initiation of uncoating but does not prevent subsequent lattice disassembly . Our observations suggest that different stages of uncoating can be controlled independently with the interplay between different capsid-binding regulators likely to determine the overall uncoating kinetics .  HIV is an enveloped virus that carries its RNA genome and associated viral proteins within a protein shell called the capsid ( Welker et al . , 2000 ) . Upon engagement of CD4 and the chemokine receptor CCR5 or CXCR4 , the viral membrane fuses with the plasma membrane of the host , depositing the viral core ( defined here as the capsid and its contents ) in the cytoplasm ( Blumenthal et al . , 2012 ) . In order to establish infection , the virus must reverse transcribe its single stranded RNA genome into double stranded DNA , traverse the cytoplasm and cross the nuclear membrane , after which it integrates into the host chromosome ( Bukrinsky , 2004 ) . We now know that the capsid plays a key role in these processes and is critical for successful infection . It not only acts as a shield to protect the viral genomic material from pattern recognition and degradation ( Lahaye et al . , 2013; Rasaiyaah et al . , 2013 ) , but is also thought to facilitate reverse transcription ( Jacques et al . , 2016 ) , engage with the nuclear pore complex ( Burdick et al . , 2017; Dharan et al . , 2016; Matreyek et al . , 2013 ) , and direct integration site targeting ( Ocwieja et al . , 2011; Schaller et al . , 2011; Sowd et al . , 2016 ) . In order to achieve many of these proposed functions , the capsid must interact with host proteins and small metabolites , as well as disassemble to release the viral DNA at the appropriate place and time ( Campbell and Hope , 2015 ) . The nature of this ‘uncoating’ process and how it is influenced by host co-factors remains a key unanswered question in HIV biology . The HIV capsid comprises 1000–1500 copies of a single viral protein , CA , corresponding to less than half of the total CA released by proteolytic processing of the Gag polyprotein during maturation ( Briggs et al . , 2004 ) . CA is a two-domain protein , which can form both hexameric and pentameric assemblies . The conical capsid is a fullerene structure , which incorporates 12 pentamers into the otherwise hexameric lattice , a geometric constraint that must be satisfied in order to achieve capsid closure ( Li et al . , 2000; Pornillos et al . , 2011 ) . However , there is no such constraint on the number of hexamers nor the positions of pentamers and , as such , HIV capsids are polymorphic . Typically , capsids have a conical shape with an average length of 119 nm and an average width of 61 nm ( Briggs et al . , 2003 ) . In addition , a large fraction of viral particles contain ‘defective’ capsids , which do not have closed surfaces ( Frank et al . , 2015; Mattei et al . , 2016; Yu et al . , 2013 ) . This high degree of polymorphism and poor fidelity of assembly mean that the HIV capsid is a technically challenging entity to study , especially when compared to the more regular icosahedral viruses , many of which can even be crystallized . Current biochemical methods used to study HIV capsid stability include an in vitro uncoating assay for the release of CA from isolated capsids ( Ambrose and Aiken , 2014; Shah and Aiken , 2011 ) , the fate of capsid assay ( Stremlau et al . , 2006; Yang et al . , 2014 ) and the cyclosporin A washout assay ( Hulme et al . , 2011 ) . These assays measure uncoating in bulk , that is rely on observing the average behavior of large numbers of viral cores . Fluorescence microscopy methods that track the uncoating process in fixed or live cells ( Francis et al . , 2016; Mamede et al . , 2017 ) can resolve steps in the uncoating process of individual capsids in the cytoplasm but complementary in vitro methods that allow high throughput measurements and detailed kinetic studies under defined conditions are still missing . Here we describe an in vitro single-molecule fluorescence imaging assay that allows us to follow the uncoating kinetics of hundreds of individual HIV capsids in a single experiment . This type of single-molecule analysis has the advantage that it can resolve intermediates in the disassembly pathway that are otherwise averaged out in traditional ensemble assays . By observing the properties of many individual capsids , it is possible to classify them according to their uncoating behaviors . This versatile method enables ‘bottom-up’ approaches to determine the effect of individual host molecules and drugs and is also compatible with ‘top-down’ studies in which the influence of whole-cell lysates can be observed . Using this method , we are able to classify virions into three categories based on their uncoating behavior . We have also been able to define two discrete uncoating events that we term ‘capsid opening’ and ‘lattice disassembly’ and show that known cofactors and drugs have different effects on these two processes . This observation has allowed us to resolve the ambiguity as to what is meant by ‘uncoating’ and how it can be influenced by external factors . 
Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy in women . Analysis of breast cancer genomic DNA indicates frequent loss-of-function mutations in components of the cJUN NH2-terminal kinase ( JNK ) signaling pathway . Since JNK signaling can promote cell proliferation by activating the AP1 transcription factor , this apparent association of reduced JNK signaling with tumor development was unexpected . We examined the effect of JNK deficiency in the murine breast epithelium . Loss of JNK signaling caused genomic instability and the development of breast cancer . Moreover , JNK deficiency caused widespread early neoplasia and rapid tumor formation in a murine model of breast cancer . This tumor suppressive function was not mediated by a role of JNK in the growth of established tumors , but by a requirement of JNK to prevent tumor initiation . Together , these data identify JNK pathway defects as ‘driver’ mutations that promote genome instability and tumor initiation .  Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed tumor in women ( Siegel et al . , 2015 ) . The etiology of breast cancer has been studied in detail , but the causes of breast cancer remain incompletely understood . Nevertheless , it is established that familial breast cancers result from germ-line mutations that increase the risk of cancer development ( Afghahi and Kurian , 2017 ) . Examples of inherited mutations that can cause breast cancer predisposition include ATM , BRCA1/2 , CDH1 , CHEK2 , NBN , and TP53 . Moreover , sporadic mutation of these and other genes promote the development of non-familial breast cancer ( Hanahan and Weinberg , 2011 ) . Changes in the tumor genome are therefore important for breast cancer development ( Hanahan and Weinberg , 2011 ) . Recent advances in breast cancer genome analysis have led to significant progress towards the identification of sporadic mutations in breast cancer ( Cancer Genome Atlas Network , 2012; Ciriello et al . , 2015; Ellis et al . , 2012; Kan et al . , 2010; Nik-Zainal et al . , 2016; Shah et al . , 2012; Stephens et al . , 2012; Wang et al . , 2014 ) . These genetic changes include ‘driver’ mutations that promote tumor development and ‘passenger’ mutations that do not functionally contribute to the tumor phenotype . Genes mutated in familial cancer syndromes constitute a prime example of ‘driver’ mutations that can contribute to cancer development . The presence of ‘passenger’ mutations complicates the analysis of cancer genomes for the development of targeted tumor therapy . For example , some ‘driver’ mutations cause genetic instability ( e . g . ATM , BRCA1/2 , CHEK2 , NBN and TP53 ) that can result in the accumulation of additional mutations in developing tumors . Computational methods have been employed to distinguish ‘driver’ and ‘passenger’ mutations based on mutation frequency ( Parmigiani et al . , 2009 ) , gene function in pathways ( Lin et al . , 2007; Wendl et al . , 2011 ) , level of gene expression ( Berger et al . , 2016 ) and predictions based on gene function ( Carter et al . , 2009; Kaminker et al . , 2007; Youn and Simon , 2011 ) and protein interactions ( Babaei et al . , 2013; Cerami et al . , 2010 ) . These computational approaches to identify ‘driver’ mutations have been complemented by functional siRNA screens on breast tumor cell lines ( Marcotte et al . , 2016; Sanchez-Garcia et al . , 2014 ) . Collectively , these approaches have led to the identification of ‘driver’ mutations in human cancer , but it is likely that many more ‘driver’ mutations remain to be discovered ( Garraway and Lander , 2013 ) . Examples of ‘driver’ mutations in breast cancer include the TP53 , PIK3CA , and PTEN genes . Mutational inactivation of PTEN or activation of PI3K increases AKT/mTOR signaling that promotes growth , proliferation , and survival ( Yuan and Cantley , 2008 ) , while mutation of TP53 promotes cell survival and proliferation ( Vousden and Prives , 2009 ) . The appreciation of the importance of these pathways in cancer has spurred research into potential therapies ( Vousden and Prives , 2009; Yuan and Cantley , 2008 ) . These well-established ‘driver’ mutations contribute to the etiology of breast cancer . In contrast , the role of some other highly mutated genes in breast cancer is unclear . One frequently mutated pathway in breast cancer is the cJUN NH2-terminal kinase ( JNK ) pathway ( Garraway and Lander , 2013 ) . The JNK pathway is a three-tiered cascade that includes a MAP kinase kinase kinase ( MAP3K ) that phosphorylates and activates MAP kinase kinases ( MAP2K ) that , in turn , phosphorylate and activate JNK ( Davis , 2000 ) . This pathway requires two MAP2K isoforms that co-operate to activate JNK by phosphorylation on tyrosine ( by MAP2K4 ) and threonine ( by MAP2K7 ) ( Tournier et al . , 2001 ) . The sequencing of breast tumor genomic DNA has revealed mutations in genes that encode members of this pathway , including MAP3K1 , MAP2K4 , and MAP2K7 ( Banerji et al . , 2012; Cancer Genome Atlas Network , 2012; Ciriello et al . , 2015; Ellis et al . , 2012; Kan et al . , 2010; Nik-Zainal et al . , 2016; Shah et al . , 2012; Stephens et al . , 2012; Wang et al . , 2014 ) . The genetic changes include frequent deletion of the gene locus and mutations that cause protein truncation and loss of protein kinase activity . This analysis suggests that breast cancer is associated with loss of JNK signaling . Indeed , since AKT phosphorylates and inactivates MAP2K4 ( Park et al . , 2002 ) , breast cancer ‘driver’ mutations that activate AKT ( e . g . PTEN and PI3K ) also cause loss of JNK signaling . The JNK signaling pathway may therefore be suppressed in many breast cancers . The association of breast cancer with reduced JNK signaling represents a correlation . What is the significance of loss-of-function JNK pathway mutations ? Are these ‘driver’ or ‘passenger’ mutations ? The purpose of this study was to test the role of JNK signaling in breast cancer development . Since JNK signaling causes AP1 transcription factor activation , we anticipated that JNK may act to promote tumor growth . In contrast , we found that loss of JNK signaling in mammary epithelial cells caused breast cancer . Furthermore , JNK deficiency accelerated tumor formation in a murine model of breast cancer . These effects of JNK deficiency to promote tumor development were associated with widespread presence of early neoplasia and genomic instability . We show that JNK plays a key role in the initiation of tumor development . Thus , the frequent loss-of-function JNK pathway mutations in breast tumors represent ‘driver’ mutations that promote breast cancer development . 
The pathways controlling cilium biogenesis in different cell types have not been fully elucidated . We recently identified peptidylglycine α-amidating monooxygenase ( PAM ) , an enzyme required for generating amidated bioactive signaling peptides , in Chlamydomonas and mammalian cilia . Here , we show that PAM is required for the normal assembly of motile and primary cilia in Chlamydomonas , planaria and mice . Chlamydomonas PAM knockdown lines failed to assemble cilia beyond the transition zone , had abnormal Golgi architecture and altered levels of cilia assembly components . Decreased PAM gene expression reduced motile ciliary density on the ventral surface of planaria and resulted in the appearance of cytosolic axonemes lacking a ciliary membrane . The architecture of primary cilia on neuroepithelial cells in Pam-/- mouse embryos was also aberrant . Our data suggest that PAM activity and alterations in post-Golgi trafficking contribute to the observed ciliogenesis defects and provide an unanticipated , highly conserved link between PAM , amidation and ciliary assembly .  Cilia are ancient microtubule-based organelles derived from the basal body , and were present in the last common ancestor of eukaryotes ( Carvalho-Santos et al . , 2011 ) . The signaling potential of primary cilia and the added ability of motile cilia to generate propulsive force established them as key organelles required for the development and homeostasis of diverse cell types and organisms . The protein and lipid complements of the cilium are distinct from the rest of the cell; more than 700 proteins and specific lipids such as sterols are enriched in this intricate structure . Thus , the biogenesis and maintenance of these complex organelles is a tightly regulated cell type specific event ( Hsiao et al . , 2012; Nachury et al . , 2010; Lechtreck , 2015; Taschner and Lorentzen , 2016 ) . Disruption of ciliogenesis or ciliary function leads to ciliopathies , a group of multisystemic diseases that have partially overlapping , often severe phenotypes , highlighting the importance of understanding these processes in different cells ( Brown and Witman , 2014; Fliegauf et al . , 2007; Waters and Beales , 2011 ) . The roles of microtubule motors and intraflagellar transport ( IFT ) proteins in trafficking the cargo proteins required to build and maintain ciliary architecture have been well described . The growing cilium also relies on the delivery of membrane vesicles and proteins derived from the Golgi , and disruption of the secretory pathway by brefeldin A inhibits ciliogenesis ( Dentler , 2013; Haller and Fabry , 1998 ) . Additionally , proteins and complexes involved in polarized vesicular trafficking such as the clathrin adaptor protein-1 complex ( AP1 ) , Rabs and Arf/Arl proteins , the exocyst and BBS complexes are critical for cilium biogenesis ( Hsiao et al . , 2012; Nachury et al . , 2007; Zuo et al . , 2009 ) . The signaling processes coordinating these pathways and regulating ciliogenesis are poorly understood . Peptidylglycine α-amidating monooxygenase ( PAM ) , a secretory pathway-localized enzyme , catalyzes one of the final steps in the biosynthesis of many signaling peptides ( Kumar et al . , 2016a ) . PAM-catalyzed C-terminal amidation confers bioactivity to secreted peptides such as oxytocin , vasopressin and neuropeptide Y . The two enzymatic domains of PAM act sequentially on glycine-extended peptide precursors . Peptidylglycine α-hydroxylating monooxygenase ( PHM ) catalyzes the copper and ascorbate dependent hydroxylation of the α-carbon of the terminal glycine , and peptidyl-α-hydroxyglycine α-amidating lyase ( PAL ) cleaves the N-C bond , generating glyoxylate and the α-amidated peptide . PAM is a type I integral membrane protein containing a cytosolic domain that is not essential for catalytic activity , but is necessary for routing the enzyme through the secretory and endocytic pathways ( Milgram et al . , 1993 ) . Based on a phylogenetic study identifying PAM-like genes in green algal genomes , we recently demonstrated the presence of active enzyme in the unicellular eukaryote , Chlamydomonas reinhardtii ( Attenborough et al . , 2012; Kumar et al . , 2016b ) . Despite the evolutionary distance between green algae and mammals , the biochemical properties of C . reinhardtii PAM ( CrPAM ) are remarkably similar to those of rat PAM . In both species , the full-length enzyme is membrane tethered , with its two catalytic domains , PHM and PAL , residing in the secretory pathway lumen . We also demonstrated that the catalytic domains of CrPAM can be separated from its transmembrane and cytosolic domains , leading to the generation of soluble bifunctional enzyme that can be secreted from cells ( Kumar et al . , 2016b ) . The striking evolutionary co-occurrence of organisms containing PAM-like genes and cilia prompted us to explore PAM localization in C . reinhardtii . Using an antibody recognizing the cytosolic domain of CrPAM , we found that this enzyme is present in the Golgi and cilia ( aka flagella ) . PAM was also observed in motile and primary cilia of mammalian cells ( tracheal epithelial cells , fibroblasts , spermatozoa ) ( Kumar et al . , 2016b ) . Furthermore , in C . reinhardtii cilia , PAM activity displayed an unexpected , strong biochemical association with the axonemal superstructure ( Kumar et al . , 2016b ) . Together , these observations in multiple cell types suggested that PAM has a novel and highly conserved signaling or sensory function in eukaryotic cilia . Here we demonstrate that PAM plays a key conserved role during the early steps of ciliogenesis , revealing a novel link between amidation and cilium assembly in multiple cell types . 
Class III myosins ( Myo3 ) and actin-bundling protein Espin play critical roles in regulating the development and maintenance of stereocilia in vertebrate hair cells , and their defects cause hereditary hearing impairments . Myo3 interacts with Espin1 through its tail homology I motif ( THDI ) , however it is not clear how Myo3 specifically acts through Espin1 to regulate the actin bundle assembly and stabilization . Here we discover that Myo3 THDI contains a pair of repeat sequences capable of independently and strongly binding to the ankyrin repeats of Espin1 , revealing an unexpected Myo3-mediated cross-linking mechanism of Espin1 . The structures of Myo3 in complex with Espin1 not only elucidate the mechanism of the binding , but also reveal a Myo3-induced release of Espin1 auto-inhibition mechanism . We also provide evidence that Myo3-mediated cross-linking can further promote actin fiber bundling activity of Espin1 .  Class III myosins ( Myo3 ) , together with class IX myosins , are two special groups of the myosin superfamily as these two sub-families of actin motors contain enzymatically active domains and thus are regarded as motorized signaling molecules ( Bähler , 2000 ) . The first member of Myo3 was identified in Drosophila photoreceptors and named as NinaC ( neither inactivation nor afterpotential C ) ( Montell and Rubin , 1988 ) . There are two paralogs of Myo3 in vertebrate , Myo3a and Myo3b , both of which are known to express in vertebrate retina and cochlea ( Dose and Burnside , 2000 , 2002; Shin et al . , 2013 ) . It is believed that they may play partially redundant roles as transporters that are crucial for vertebrate photoreceptor and stereocilia ultrastructure maintenance ( Manor et al . , 2012; Mecklenburg et al . , 2015; Merritt et al . , 2012 ) . Myo3 across different species all contain an N-terminal S/T kinase domain before their motor head . The kinase domain has been reported to regulate the motor’s ATPase activity ( Komaba et al . , 2010; Quintero et al . , 2010 ) . The tail regions of Myo3 from different species are less conserved . Drosophila NinaC contains a PDZ binding motif at its very C-terminus capable of binding to a master scaffold protein called INAD ( Inactivation no afterpotential D ) ( Wes et al . , 1999 ) . Vertebrate Myo3 tails share a conserved vertebrate specific domain referred to as tail homology I motif ( THDI ) ( Figure 1A ) ( Dose et al . , 2003 ) . The THDI mediates binding of Myo3 to its cargo protein Espin1 ( Ectoplasmic specialization protein 1 ) and allows Myo3 to transport Espin1 to the tips of actin bundle-based structures such as filopodia and stereocilia . Once tip localized , Espin1 WH2 domain promotes the elongation of actin protrusions ( Merritt et al . , 2012; Salles et al . , 2009 ) . However , the detailed molecular basis governing the Myo3 and Espin1 interaction is not clear . 10 . 7554/eLife . 12856 . 003Figure 1 . Biochemical characterizations of the Myo3/Espin1 interaction . ( A ) Domain organizations of Espin1 , Myo3a and Myo3b . ( B ) Sequence alignment of THDI of Myo3a and Myo3b showing that there are a pair of repeating sequences within THDI , which we term as ARB1 and ARB2 . Hs , human; Mm , mouse; Gg , chicken; Xt , Xenopus tropicalis; Dr , Danio rerio . ( C ) ITC results showing that Myo3b-ARB12 ( C1 ) as well as each individual site ( C2 for ARB1 and C3 for ARB2 ) can bind to Espin1-AR with strong affinities . ( D ) FPLC-MALS showing that ARB12 and Espin1-AR form a 1:2 complex . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 12856 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 12856 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . ITC results of Myo3a-ARBs binding to Espin1-AR . ( A–C ) ITC results showing that Myo3a-ARB12 ( A ) as well as each individual ARB ( B for ARB1 and C for ARB2 ) can bind to Espin1-AR with strong affinities . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 12856 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 12856 . 005Figure 1—figure supplement 2 . Analytical gel filtration chromatography analysis of the Espin1-AR and Myo3b-ARB12 interaction . ( A–C ) The profiles of mixtures of Trx-Espin1-AR and Myo3b-ARB12 with different molar-ratios . The black and red curves in each panel represent the elution profiles of Trx-Espin1-AR alone and Myo3b-ARB12 alone , respectively . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 12856 . 005 Espin1 was first identified in Sertoli cell-spermatid junctions ( Bartles et al . , 1996 ) , encoded by the gene Espin . Later , shorter spliced isoforms of Espin gene products ( Espin2B , Espin3A and Espin4 ) were shown to be expressed in other F-actin rich structures such as brush border microvilli and Purkinje cell dendritic spines ( Bartles et al . , 1998; Sekerkova et al . , 2003 ) . They share a common 14 kDa C-terminal actin binding domain ( ABD; Figure 1A ) , which was reported to be necessary and sufficient for F-actin bundling activity ( Bartles , 2000; Bartles et al . , 1998 ) . Besides the ABD , all Espin isoforms contain a WH2 motif which can bind to actin monomer and a proline rich ( PR ) region which can interact with profilins ( Sekerkova et al . , 2006 ) . Espin2B contains one more PR region and an extra actin binding site ( xAB ) at the N-terminus ( Chen et al . , 1999 ) . Espin1 is the longest isoform in the family and contains a stretch of ankyrin repeats ( AR ) in its N-terminus ( Figure 1A ) . The AR of Espin1 is responsible for directly interacting with Myo3 tail THDI ( Merritt et al . , 2012; Salles et al . , 2009 ) . Recently , it was reported that Espin1 contains an AR binding sequence immediately C-terminal to xAB , and binding of AR to this sequence prevents xAB from binding to actin ( Zheng et al . , 2014 ) . As such , the actin binding activity of the N-terminal part of Espin1 is auto-inhibited , and this AR-binding region is named as the auto-inhibitory region ( AI , Figure 1A ) . The authors also proposed that Myo3 binding can release the auto-inhibition and increase the diameter of Espin1-promoted actin bundles ( Zheng et al . , 2014 ) . Myo3a/Myo3b are known to co-localize with Espin1 at the tips of stereocilia of hair cells ( Merritt et al . , 2012; Salles et al . , 2009; Schneider et al . , 2006 ) . Importantly , co-expression of Myo3a and Espin1 can further stimulate elongation of stereocilia in cultured organ of Corti hair cells ( Salles et al . , 2009 ) . When expressed in heterologous cells , Myo3a gets enriched at the tip of filopodia ( Les Erickson et al . , 2003; Salles et al . , 2009; Schneider et al . , 2006 ) . Mutations of human Myo3a gene is known to cause progressive non-syndromic hearing loss , DFNB30 ( Walsh et al . , 2002 ) . Also , transgenic mice with DFNB30 mutation undergo age-dependent outer hair cell degeneration ( Walsh et al . , 2011 ) . The jerker mouse carrying espin frame-shift mutation suffers from hair cells degeneration , deafness and vestibular dysfunction ( Sekerkova et al . , 2011; Zheng et al . , 2000 ) . Mutations in espin were also reported to be associated with non-syndromic autosomal recessive deafness DFNB36 and non-syndromic autosomal dominant deafness ( Boulouiz et al . , 2008; Donaudy et al . , 2006; Naz et al . , 2004 ) . A prominent phenotype of the jerker mice is that their hair cell stereocilia are uniformly thinner and shorter , degenerate faster than those of the wild type littermates ( Sekerkova et al . , 2011; Zheng et al . , 2000 ) . These genetic findings convincingly point to critical roles of espin in stereocilia development and maintenance , likely by promoting the assembly and stabilization of parallel actin filament bundles in stereocilia ( Bartles , 2000; Sekerkova et al . , 2006 ) . Here , we discover that both Myo3a and Myo3b contain two highly similar repeat sequences in their THDI region , each capable of independently binding to Espin1-AR with high affinity . The high resolution crystal structures of each of the two binding sequences from Myo3b in complex with Espin1-AR not only reveal the molecular basis governing the specific interaction between Myo3 and Espin1 , but also allow us to discern the Myo3-mediated release of the auto-inhibition mechanism of Espin1 . Based on these structural findings , we predict that binding of Myo3 to Espin1 can cluster Espin1 and thus enable Espin1 to further cross-link actin filaments into higher order fibers . Consistent with this prediction , we demonstrate by electron and fluorescence microscopic studies that binding of Myo3 to Espin1 can further promote formation of Espin1-mediated thicker actin bundles . 
Voltage-gated calcium channels control key functions of excitable cells , like synaptic transmission in neurons and the contraction of heart and skeletal muscles . To accomplish such diverse functions , different calcium channels activate at different voltages and with distinct kinetics . To identify the molecular mechanisms governing specific voltage sensing properties , we combined structure modeling , mutagenesis , and electrophysiology to analyze the structures , free energy , and transition kinetics of the activated and resting states of two functionally distinct voltage sensing domains ( VSDs ) of the eukaryotic calcium channel CaV1 . 1 . Both VSDs displayed the typical features of the sliding helix model; however , they greatly differed in ion-pair formation of the outer gating charges . Specifically , stabilization of the activated state enhanced the voltage dependence of activation , while stabilization of resting states slowed the kinetics . This mechanism provides a mechanistic model explaining how specific ion-pair formation in separate VSDs can realize the characteristic gating properties of voltage-gated cation channels .  Voltage-gated calcium channels ( CaV ) translate membrane depolarization into calcium influx . Thus , they contribute to cellular excitability and they couple electrical activity to fundamental cell functions like contraction of heart and skeletal muscle , secretion of neurotransmitters and hormones , and the regulation of gene expression . Together with voltage-gated sodium channels ( NaV ) , CaVs form a structurally related ion channel superfamily with a fourfold symmetry ( Figure 1A ) . Their pore-forming α1 subunits are composed of four homologous but non-identical domains ( repeats I-IV ) , each containing six transmembrane helices ( S1-S6 ) . The S5 and S6 helices plus the connecting P loop of all four repeats form the central channel pore with the selectivity filter and the activation gate ( Catterall et al . , 2020 ) . Helices S1-S4 of each repeat form separate voltage sensing domains ( VSDs ) . The S4 helix contains positively charged residues ( termed gating charges ) in every third position , and its movement across the electric field upon membrane depolarization is thought to initiate the conformational change resulting in channel opening ( Catterall et al . , 2017 ) . Several high-resolution structures of prokaryotic and eukaryotic NaV channels have been solved ( Lenaeus et al . , 2017; Pan et al . , 2018; Payandeh et al . , 2011; Yan et al . , 2017; Zhang et al . , 2012 ) . Recent advances in cryo-electron microscopy ( cryo-EM ) enabled the determination of the structure of the voltage-gated calcium channel CaV1 . 1 at 3 . 6 Å resolution , displaying a closed pore and the VSDs in the activated up-state ( Wu et al . , 2016; Wu et al . , 2015 ) . Very recently , three cryo-EM structures of homo-tetrameric sodium channels experimentally locked in resting ( or VSD-down ) states have been reported ( Wisedchaisri et al . , 2021; Wisedchaisri et al . , 2019; Xu et al . , 2019 ) . However , up to now the resting states of eukaryotic CaV and NaV channels remained inaccessible to experimental structure determination . Nevertheless , many years of experimental work and structure modeling provide ample support for the sliding helix model of the voltage sensor action ( Catterall et al . , 2017; Yarov-Yarovoy et al . , 2012 ) . According to this model , the negative membrane potential at rest pulls the positively charged S4 helices down toward the cytoplasmic side of the membrane holding the channel gate closed . The reversal of the electric field upon membrane depolarization causes the outward displacement of the S4 helix by about 10 Å . The movement of two to three positive gating charges through the hydrophobic constriction site ( HCS ) in the center of the VSD is facilitated by the transient formation of ion-pair interactions with negative countercharges in the other helices of the VSD ( Catterall et al . , 2017 ) . While this model describes the principal mode of voltage sensor action , without further structure-function data , it does not explain how the four homologous but structurally distinct VSDs of eukaryotic channels cooperate in channel gating and how the unique gating properties of different channel isoforms are achieved . The distinct structure of the four VSDs of eukaryotic NaV and CaV suggests that there might be considerable variability between the four VSDs of a channel in the movement of the S4 helices and the molecular interactions of their gating charges . In fact , accumulating evidence indicates functional differences between the VSDs of individual channel isoforms ( Ahern et al . , 2016; Pantazis et al . , 2014; Tuluc et al . , 2016a ) . The rabbit skeletal muscle CaV1 . 1 is the first member of the CaV family for which the structure has been solved ( Wu et al . , 2016; Wu et al . , 2015; Zhao et al . , 2019 ) . Biophysically it is characterized by slow kinetics and right-shifted voltage dependence of activation ( Tuluc et al . , 2016a ) . Together these attributes make CaV1 . 1 a prime candidate for studying how specific structural features of the VSDs determine voltage dependence and kinetics of channel activation . Here , we applied molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulation and Markov state modeling ( MSM ) combined with site-directed mutagenesis and electrophysiological analyses to identify the molecular mechanism by which individual VSDs determine the characteristic voltage dependence and kinetics of current activation . Our structure models of the activated and resting states of CaV1 . 1 VSDs I and IV are consistent with the sliding helix model and yielded reliable predictions of the importance of ion-pair formation between the outer gating charges and various countercharges within the particular VSD . Our data provide novel insight in how the stabilization of the VSDs in resting and/or the activated states shapes the kinetics and voltage dependence of activation , respectively . 
The ability of the adult brain to undergo plastic changes is of particular interest in medicine , especially regarding recovery from injuries or improving learning and cognition . Matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) have been associated with juvenile experience-dependent primary visual cortex ( V1 ) plasticity , yet little is known about their role in this process in the adult V1 . Activation of MMPs is a crucial step facilitating structural changes in a healthy brain; however , upon brain injury , upregulated MMPs promote the spread of a lesion and impair recovery . To clarify these seemingly opposing outcomes of MMP-activation , we examined the effects of MMP-inhibition on experience-induced plasticity in healthy and stoke-affected adult mice . In healthy animals , 7-day application of MMP-inhibitor prevented visual plasticity . Additionally , treatment with MMP-inhibitor once but not twice following stroke rescued plasticity , normally lost under these conditions . Our data imply that an optimal level of MMP-activity is crucial for adult visual plasticity to occur .  Neuroplasticity is the ability of the brain to adapt both structurally and functionally to changing patterns of activity induced by the environment or intrinsic factors . In the clinical setting , plasticity is important for tissue repair and neural network rewiring , necessary for recovery and optimal post-injury brain function . The primary visual cortex ( V1 ) is a widely used model region for studying sensory plasticity in young vs . adult brains ( Hofer et al . , 2006; Espinosa and Stryker , 2012; Levelt and Hübener , 2012 ) . In mammals , V1 consists of a monocular and a binocular zone; neurons in the binocular zone respond to stimulation of both eyes but are dominated by the contralateral eye in rodents ( Dräger , 1975; 1978 ) . This ocular dominance ( OD ) can be modified in an experience-dependent manner , by depriving one eye of pattern vision for several days ( known as monocular deprivation or MD ) , as originally observed by Wiesel and Hubel more than 50 years ago ( Wiesel and Hubel , 1965 ) . OD-plasticity has become one of the major paradigms for studying cortical plasticity . In standard-cage raised mice , OD-plasticity in binocular V1 is most pronounced in 4-week-old animals; reduced , yet present , in early adulthood; and absent in animals older than 110 days of age ( Lehmann and Löwel , 2008 ) . In 4-week-old mice , 3-4 days of MD are sufficient to induce a significant OD-shift towards the open eye ( juvenile OD-plasticity ) , while 7 days of MD are needed in 3-month-old animals ( adult OD-plasticity ) ( Gordon and Stryker , 1996; Sawtell et al . , 2003; Frenkel and Bear , 2004; Mrsic-Flogel et al . , 2007; Sato and Stryker , 2008 ) . Although the experimental paradigm is rather similar , molecular mechanisms underlying 'juvenile' and 'adult' OD-plasticity are different: in juvenile mice , OD-shifts are mostly mediated by reductions in deprived eye responses while adult plasticity is predominantly mediated by an increase in open eye responses in V1 ( Hofer et al . , 2006; Espinosa and Stryker , 2012; Levelt and Hübener , 2012 ) . Activity driven modifications in neuronal circuits can be facilitated by degradation of the extracellular matrix ( ECM ) ( Pizzorusso et al . , 2002; de Vivo et al . , 2013 ) , which provides structural and biochemical support for the cells ( Frischknecht and Gundelfinger , 2012 ) . Structural and molecular composition of the ECM changes during development , becoming denser and more rigid in the mature brain ( Frischknecht and Gundelfinger , 2012; de Vivo et al . , 2013 ) . This structural composition is partially regulated by a family of zinc dependent endopeptidases , the matrix metalloproteinases ( MMPs ) , and their enzymatic activity is crucial for proper development , function and maintenance of neuronal networks ( Milward et al . , 2007; Huntley , 2012 ) . A recent study in juvenile rats showed that pharmacological inhibition of MMPs with a broad spectrum inhibitor during the MD-period did not influence the reduction of the closed-eye responses induced by 3 days of MD , yet it prevented the potentiation of the nondeprived eye responses in V1 after 7 days of MD ( Spolidoro et al . , 2012 ) . Whether MMPs are involved in adult OD-plasticity , for which mechanisms are believed to be different ( Hofer et al . , 2006; Sato and Stryker , 2008; Ranson et al . , 2012 ) , is not yet known , and clarifying this point was the first goal of this study . In addition to MMP involvement in healthy brain function , their excessive activity can also be detrimental ( Agrawal et al . , 2008; Huntley , 2012 ) . Both human and animal studies found upregulated activity of MMPs following inflammation , infectious diseases or brain trauma ( Agrawal et al . , 2008; Rosell and Lo , 2008; Morancho et al . , 2010; Vandenbroucke and Libert , 2014 ) , and pharmacological inhibition of MMPs shortly after brain injuries reduced infarct sizes and prompted better recovery ( Romanic et al . , 1998; Lo et al . , 2002; Gu et al . , 2005; Wang and Tsirka , 2005; Yong , 2005; Morancho et al . , 2010; Chang et al . , 2014; Vandenbroucke and Libert , 2014 ) . Stroke can influence synaptic activities within the area directly affected by it , and also in a broader area surrounding the lesion ( Witte et al . , 2000; Murphy and Corbett , 2009 ) . Likewise , impairments in experience-dependent plasticity after a cortical stroke also have been observed in distant brain regions ( Jablonka et al . , 2007; Greifzu et al . , 2011 ) : in 3-month-old mice , a focal stroke in the primary somatosensory cortex ( S1 ) prevented both V1-plasticity and improvements of the spatial frequency and contrast thresholds of the optomotor reflex of the open eye ( Greifzu et al . , 2011 ) . Interestingly , some MMPs were shown to be upregulated within the first 24 hours after focal stroke ( Cybulska-Klosowicz et al . , 2011; Liguz-Lecznar et al . , 2012 ) . Thus , the second goal of our study was to test whether balancing the upregulated MMPs resulting from a focal stroke in S1 would rescue visual plasticity . Using a combination of in vivo optical imaging of intrinsic signals and behavioral vision tests in adult mice , we observed that application of the broad spectrum MMP-inhibitor GM6001 during the 7-day MD-period prevented both OD-plasticity and enhancements of the optomotor response of the open eye . In addition , a single treatment after the S1-stroke rescued plasticity in both paradigms , whereas treatment with the inhibitor two times diminished plasticity-promoting effect . Together , these data reveal a crucial role of MMPs in adult visual plasticity and suggest that MMP-activity has to be within a narrow window for experience-induced plasticity to occur . 
Signal transduction at vertebrate excitatory synapses involves the rapid activation of AMPA ( α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate ) receptors , glutamate-gated ion channels whose four subunits assemble as a dimer-of-dimers . Technical advances in cryo-electron microscopy brought a slew of full-length structures of AMPA receptors , on their own and in combination with auxiliary subunits . These structures indicate that dimers might undergo substantial lateral motions during gating , opening up the extracellular layer along the central twofold symmetry axis . We used bifunctional methanethiosulfonate cross-linkers to calibrate the conformations found in functional AMPA receptors in the presence and absence of the auxiliary subunit Stargazin . Our data indicate that extracellular layer of AMPA receptors can get trapped in stable , opened-up conformations , especially upon long exposures to glutamate . In contrast , Stargazin limits this conformational flexibility . Thus , under synaptic conditions , where brief glutamate exposures and the presence of auxiliary proteins dominate , extracellular domains of AMPA receptors likely stay compact during gating .  AMPA-type glutamate receptors are found at excitatory synapses throughout the mammalian brain , where they convert glutamate release into membrane depolarization . Their fast kinetics ( Colquhoun et al . , 1992; Geiger et al . , 1995; Taschenberger and von Gersdorff , 2000 ) , as well as the physical attributes of synapses ( Xu-Friedman and Regehr , 2003 ) , allow them to follow glutamate transients at rates above 100 Hz . However , the structural dynamics underlying their rapid signaling are unclear . AMPA receptors are tetrameric ligand-gated ion channels . Ignoring their intracellular regions , they consist of three layers formed from distinct domains ( Figure 1A ) . The two extracellular layers assemble from amino-terminal domains and ligand-binding domains , ATDs and LBDs , respectively . These adopt local dimer pairs in resting and active receptors . These dimers pack around a central twofold symmetry axis that switches into fourfold symmetry in the transmembrane ion channel layer . Although the ATD dimers associate with high affinity ( KD nM to μM ( Zhao et al . , 2017 ) , the association of ATD dimers into a tetramer as well as of LBDs into dimers and tetramers is too weak to measure . In case of the LBDs , this weak association has direct functional consequences , because the LBD intra-dimer interface ruptures upon desensitization ( Sun et al . , 2002; Armstrong et al . , 2006; Dürr et al . , 2014; Twomey et al . , 2017b ) . The crowded and narrow synaptic cleft is scarcely wider than the receptors are tall themselves and has narrow edges ( Zuber et al . , 2005; Tao et al . , 2018 ) . This observation suggests that conformational dynamics of the receptor domains and their relation to synapse dimensions has implications in both health and disease . For example , if the extracellular layer of AMPA receptors can undergo large conformational changes rapidly , that is on the millisecond timescale of fast excitatory transmission , this could disrupt possible interactions of the extracellular domains with the pre- and postsynaptic anchoring proteins ( Elegheert et al . , 2016 ) . Activity-dependent anchoring might be a way to regulate synaptic strength ( Constals et al . , 2015 ) . On the other hand , slow rearrangements could be relevant for trafficking , and in disease states . Advances in the structural biology of ionotropic glutamate receptors ( iGluRs ) have produced a catalogue of static conformational snapshots . Several agonist-bound structures ( Nakagawa et al . , 2005; Dürr et al . , 2014; Meyerson et al . , 2014 ) suggest that local dimers in the ATD and LBD layer move apart from each other substantially . This movement away from the central twofold symmetry axis results in an ‘open’ extracellular layer , with the tops of the ATD and LBD dimers splaying wide open ( desensitized structure in Figure 1A ) . The timescale of this broad lateral movement is unknown , because the structural experiments necessarily took place over hours . We therefore set out to investigate the conformational range of agonist-bound AMPA receptors with the aim of distinguishing frequently-visited , short-lived conformations from the long-lived ones that likely have less direct relevance to synaptic transmission . Previously , we demonstrated disulphide bonds and metal bridges trapping receptors in compact , as opposed to ‘open’ LBD arrangements ( Salazar et al . , 2017; Baranovic et al . , 2016; Lau et al . , 2013 ) . To measure the separation of domains in this work , we used bifunctional methanethiosulfonate cross-linkers ( bis-MTS ) of defined lengths ( Loo and Clarke , 2001; Guan et al . , 2002; Armstrong et al . , 2006; Tajima et al . , 2016 ) ( Figure 1D ) . These cross-linkers show specific combination with two free thiol groups , provided by cysteine residues that we engineered . The selective reactivity of a series of probes can in principle report distances , giving them the property of nanometre-scale molecular rulers . Based on activated and desensitized state structures , we reasoned that , crosslinking between ligand binding domain dimers should be state-dependent . Short crosslinkers should be favored in active states with compact LBD layers , and longer crosslinkers should be favored in desensitized states . Our results suggest that the more opened-up a given conformation of the extracellular layer of the receptor is , the slower it is to access . Once attained , these conformations are stable . However , auxiliary subunits restrict the conformational ensemble , maintaining more compact arrangements of the LBD layer , without much separation of the two LBD dimers . This kinetic classification suggests AMPA receptors at synapses probably have similar , compact geometries regardless of their instantaneous gating state . 
Single cell isolation from helminth-infected murine intestines has been notoriously difficult , due to the strong anti-parasite type 2 immune responses that drive mucus production , tissue remodeling and immune cell infiltration . Through the systematic optimization of a standard intestinal digestion protocol , we were able to successfully isolate millions of immune cells from the heavily infected duodenum . To validate that these cells gave an accurate representation of intestinal immune responses , we analyzed them using a high-dimensional spectral flow cytometry panel and confirmed our findings by confocal microscopy . Our cell isolation protocol and high-dimensional analysis allowed us to identify many known hallmarks of anti-parasite immune responses throughout the entire course of helminth infection and has the potential to accelerate single-cell discoveries of local helminth immune responses that have previously been unfeasible .  Recent advances in single cell analysis have significantly increased our understanding of multiple diseases and cell types in different tissues ( Svensson et al . , 2018; Hwang et al . , 2018 ) . However , many of these technologies require single cell suspensions as an input , which limits our assessment of difficult-to-process tissues ( Hwang et al . , 2018; Nguyen et al . , 2018; Chen et al . , 2018 ) . One prominent example is the intestine , which is at the center of many research questions that focus on nutrient uptake ( Kiela and Ghishan , 2016 ) , host-microbiome interactions ( Belkaid and Hand , 2014; Tilg et al . , 2019; Sekirov et al . , 2010 ) , local and systemic immune tolerance ( Worbs et al . , 2006; Harrison and Powrie , 2013; Whibley et al . , 2019 ) and gastrointestinal diseases and infections ( Mowat and Agace , 2014; Sell and Dolan , 2018; Fletcher et al . , 2013; Hendrickson et al . , 2002; Saleh and Elson , 2011 ) , but represents a challenging tissue to digest ( Weigmann et al . , 2007; Reißig et al . , 2014 ) . The standard digestion procedure to isolate intestinal immune cells located in the small intestinal lamina propria consists of three steps ( Weigmann et al . , 2007; Reißig et al . , 2014; Scott et al . , 2016; Esterházy et al . , 2019 ) ( Figure 1a ) . First the intestinal segment of interest is collected , opened longitudinally to remove its luminal content , washed and cut into small pieces . These pieces then undergo several wash steps with EDTA containing wash buffers at 37°C to remove the epithelial layer and make the lamina propria accessible for enzymatic digestion . Lastly , the tissue is enzymatically digested with collagenases ( Collagenase VIII from Clostridium histolyticum being among the most popular ) and later filtered to obtain a single cell suspension . While this method results in a high cell yield from steady state intestines , the isolation of cells from severely infected segments remains challenging ( Reißig et al . , 2014; Scott et al . , 2016; Webster et al . , 2020 ) ( Figure 1b ) . One of the most prominent examples are infections with intestinal helminths , which represent over 50% of all parasitic infections in human and livestock populations ( McSorley and Maizels , 2012; Hotez et al . , 2008; Jourdan et al . , 2018; Jackson et al . , 2009 ) . This has limited our analysis of anti-parasite immune responses to imaging approaches , phenotypical observations in transgenic mouse strains or the assessment of secondary locations like the draining lymph nodes , blood or spleen ( McSorley and Maizels , 2012; Maizels and McSorley , 2016; Mishra et al . , 2014 ) , which might only partially reflect local immunity . As helminth infections are strongly linked to chronic impairments that affect nutrition availability ( Koski and Scott , 2001; Crompton and Nesheim , 2002 ) ; memory , cognition and physical development ( Ezeamama et al . , 2005; Pabalan et al . , 2018; Nokes et al . , 1992 ) ; changes in the microbiota ( Gause and Maizels , 2016; Ramanan et al . , 2016 ) and modulation of local and systemic immunity ( Mishra et al . , 2014; Maizels et al . , 2009 ) , an optimized digestion protocol is needed to further investigate the infected intestinal tissue . 
Proteasomal protein degradation is a key determinant of protein half-life and hence of cellular processes ranging from basic metabolism to a host of immunological processes . Despite its importance the mechanisms regulating proteasome activity are only incompletely understood . Here we use an iterative and tightly integrated experimental and modelling approach to develop , explore and validate mechanistic models of proteasomal peptide-hydrolysis dynamics . The 20S proteasome is a dynamic enzyme and its activity varies over time because of interactions between substrates and products and the proteolytic and regulatory sites; the locations of these sites and the interactions between them are predicted by the model , and experimentally supported . The analysis suggests that the rate-limiting step of hydrolysis is the transport of the substrates into the proteasome . The transport efficiency varies between human standard- and immuno-proteasomes thereby impinging upon total degradation rate and substrate cleavage-site usage .  Cells can be usefully thought of as communities of molecular machines that work in concert to maintain cellular function ( Nurse , 2003 ) . Metabolism , gene expression , protein production and degradation , energy production , DNA replication , cell division all have their own repertoire of associated proteins and macromolecular assemblies , and are controlled by complex and highly dynamic signalling and regulatory networks; this picture is complemented by a slew of structural proteins that provide cell walls , nuclear membranes , endoplasmic reticulum and other structures of the eukaryotic cell . But while advances in imaging and microscopy technology have allowed us to glean some insights into the structures and even dynamics at the molecular level ( Liepe et al . , 2012 ) , much of our knowledge about the function of for example , protein production at ribosomes , or degradation at proteasomes , is based on indirect observations , or on data collected at some experimentally convenient equilibrium state . Increasingly time-resolved data can also be collected , and this type of data typically provides more detailed insights into the molecular mechanisms at work . To interpret such data , mathematical modelling coupled to state-of-the-art statistical inference thus becomes a necessity ( May 2004; Buchholz et al . , 2013; Gerlach et al . , 2013 ) to make sense of data and design better , more discriminatory experiments . Here we apply a modelling approach to a detailed mechanistic analysis of proteasomes , which are at the core of the ubiquitin-proteasome system and responsible for the destruction of the majority of the cytoplasmic proteins . Proteins are usually tagged by E1-E2-E3-E4 enzyme-mediated poly-ubiquitination , carried into the proteasome proteolytic chamber where they are fragmented and , ultimately , expulsed ( Schwartz and Ciechanover , 2009 ) . Proteins , and especially oxidised proteins—that is , those that reflect the presence of cellular stress conditions—can also be degraded by 20S proteasomes without prior poly-ubiquitination ( Aiken et al . , 2011; Pickering and Davies , 2012; Ben-Nissan and Sharon , 2014; Höhn and Grune , 2014 ) . In addition to stress response , the 20S proteasomes present in cells ( Fabre et al . , 2015 ) have been shown to regulate the abundance of a host of signalling molecules involved in cell cycle progression , cellular growth control and oncogenesis ( Ben-Nissan and Sharon , 2014 ) . Additionally , 20S proteasomes form the core of the structure of 26S proteasomes and we cannot expect to understand the latter if we do not understand the mechanisms that determine the activity of the former . Poly-ubiquitin tagging ( when it occurs ) , transport and peptide-bond hydrolysis regulate protein half-life and thereby affect the majority of metabolic processes in the cell . Despite considerable biochemical and structural efforts , the mechanisms of proteasomal action , in particular the causes and extent of differences in substrate-specific proteolysis between different proteasome isoforms , are only incompletely understood . In this study we combine carefully designed experimental assays with detailed modelling to shed light on these mechanisms . There is a dearth of mechanistic analyses of proteasome functions , and the complexity of polypeptide hydrolysis has precluded detailed analysis ( Liepe et al . , 2014a ) . The most direct insights come from carefully chosen short fluorogenic peptides , which have a single proteasome-catalyzed cleavage site , which in turn allows us to follow the kinetics in real time . They have also been used ( exclusively ) to measure the proteasomal activity in cellulo ( e . g . , Kapeta et al . , 2010; Chondrogianni et al . , 2015; Peters et al . , 2015; Pickering et al . , 2015 ) , despite the fact that they lack the complexity of ‘real’ proteins and they do not recapitulate proteasome proteolytic activities towards polypeptide chains ( Mishto et al . , 2014 ) . Nevertheless , they provide arguably the most promising class of leads of proteasomal inhibitors ( Bellavista et al . , 2013; Kisselev and Groettrup , 2014 ) . Furthermore , kinetic and structural analyses rely on their structural and biophysical characteristics ( Gaczynska et al . , 1993; Kisselev et al . , 2002 , 2003 , 2006; Osmulski et al . , 2009 ) ; we , too , use them here for our analysis , which is based on a representative set of such peptides . As we show below the insights gained from the short fluorogenic peptides are borne out by further analysis of polypeptides . The mechanistic analyses performed here also incorporate known structural features into a mathematical model of proteasome action . The 20S proteasome consists of four stacked seven membered rings ( denoted by α7β7β7α7 ) . These rings form three interconnected cavities , including a pair of antechambers through which substrates are passed before reaching the central catalytic chamber . Antechamber walls are not merely structural , but interact actively with the substrates by altering their properties and keeping them accessible for hydrolysis ( Ruschak et al . , 2010 ) . These proteasome chambers can also store two or more proteins in order to enable continuous degradation ( Hutschenreiter et al . , 2004; Sharon et al . , 2006 ) . The central chamber contains six subunits ( two β1 , β2 and β5 subunits ) that catalyse the peptide-bond hydrolysis and peptide splicing after binding of the polypeptide substrates nearby their active N-terminal Thr ( Vigneron et al . , 2004; Borissenko and Groll , 2007; Mishto et al . , 2012 ) . 20S proteasomes modify their conformations and thus in turn their activity upon peptide-bond hydrolysis ( Osmulski et al . , 2009; Ruschak and Kay , 2012 ) , binding of regulatory complexes such as 11S or 19S to the proteasome α rings ( leading to the formation of PA28-capped proteasomes and 26S proteasomes , respectively ) ( Dick et al . , 1996; Emmerich et al . , 2000; Köhler et al . , 2001; Ruschak and Kay , 2012; Raule et al . , 2014 ) , and activation of non-catalytic modifier sites ( Schmidtke et al . , 2000; Kisselev et al . , 2002 , 2003 ) whose location in the proteasome remain unknown ( Liepe et al . , 2014a ) . In mammals different 20S proteasome isoforms exist , which carry different catalytic β subunits . Upon an inflammatory stimulus such as IFN-γ the catalytic standard β1 , β2 and β5 subunits peculiar of the standard proteasome ( s-proteasome ) are replaced by the immuno-subunits β1i , β2i and β5i in the newly synthesized immunoproteasome ( i-proteasome ) . Proteasome isoforms degrade substrates with different rates , but generate the same peptide pool ( Mishto et al . , 2014 ) . And while there exist differences between substrates , the 20S i-proteasome has been shown often to have a higher polypeptide degradation rate than its standard counterpart ( Bellavista et al . , 2013 ) . Why s- or i-proteasomes should degrade specific substrates more rapidly is a matter of ongoing debate . Different steps of the proteolysis process may be responsible for isoform specific kinetics: transport of the substrate through the gate and the antechambers; binding to substrate binding sites and ensuing peptide-bond hydrolysis ( Huber et al . , 2012; Arciniega et al . , 2014 ) ; and the release from the substrate binding sites and finally from the proteasome gate . The question is also of direct medical relevance: different degradation kinetics of specific substrates by s- and i-proteasomes , or i-proteasome carrying genetic polymorphisms/mutations , have been suggested to be involved in a variety of pathologies ( Basler et al . , 2013; Bellavista et al . , 2013 ) . Furthermore , i-proteasome deficient mice show altered proteasome-dependent kinetics of pathogen epitope generation ( Basler et al . , 2013 ) . Such different kinetics could , for example , lead to the remodelling of immunodominance of viral epitopes ( Zanker et al . , 2013 ) or to the lack of CD8+ T cell-mediated response towards specific viral antigens ( Deol et al . , 2007 ) . As we will show below , our framework allows us to start from simple models of proteasome function , and identify which mechanistic shortcomings they exhibit . We focus on the dynamics of the digestion of a set of exemplar peptides , and show that this process is regulated carefully and by three distinct mechanisms , that act in concert to regulate proteasomal activity . Here considering different mechanisms , coupled to state-of-the art statistical model selection techniques ( Kirk et al . , 2013 ) , allows us to elucidate steps in the proteasomal dynamics that cannot be probed directly through experiments . Model selection naturally extends the conventional hypothesis testing approach , and by accounting for uncertainty fairly and correctly , can be applied to systems with many unknown kinetic parameters ( which are , in any case , inferred together with their respective uncertainties ) ( Liepe et al . , 2013; Babtie et al . , 2014 ) . 
The recycling of neurotransmitters is essential for sustained synaptic transmission . In Drosophila , histamine recycling is required for visual synaptic transmission . Synaptic histamine is rapidly taken up by laminar glia , and is converted to carcinine . After delivered back to photoreceptors , carcinine is hydrolyzed to release histamine and β-alanine . This histamine is repackaged into synaptic vesicles , but it is unclear how the β-alanine is returned to the laminar glial cells . Here , we identified a new β-alanine transporter , which we named BalaT ( Beta-alanine Transporter ) . Null balat mutants exhibited lower levels of β-alanine , as well as less β-alanine accumulation in the retina . Moreover , BalaT is expressed and required in retinal pigment cells for maintaining visual synaptic transmission and phototaxis behavior . These results provide the first genetic evidence that retinal pigment cells play a critical role in visual neurotransmission , and suggest that a BalaT-dependent β-alanine trafficking pathway is required for histamine homeostasis and visual neurotransmission .  Efficient clearance of neurotransmitters from the synaptic cleft is crucial for terminating a synaptic signal . These cleared neurotransmitters must then be recycled for sustained synaptic transmission ( i . e . , to maintain stable levels of transmitters ) ( Blakely and Edwards , 2012 ) . Neurons that utilize histamine as a neurotransmitter play important roles in a variety of biological processes , including cognition , sleep , and metabolism , and dysfunction of the histaminergic system in the brain has been linked to multiple neurological diseases ( Haas et al . , 2008; Panula and Nuutinen , 2013 ) . Histamine is particularly important in the Drosophila visual system ( Hardie , 1989 ) , and histamine recycling is the dominant pathway for maintaining adequate levels of histamine in adult photoreceptors ( Borycz et al . , 2002 ) . In this system , and in mammalian systems as well , the histamine recycling process involves both neurons and glial cells that surround the synapse ( Edwards and Meinertzhagen , 2010; Yoshikawa et al . , 2013 ) . In fact , a network of glia cells and pigment cells interconnected via gap junctions plays a key role in the long-distance recycling of histamine in the Drosophila visual system ( Chaturvedi et al . , 2014 ) . However , the mechanisms by which this cellular network recycles histamine and its metabolites are unknown . Once histamine is released by a photoreceptor into the optic lamina , it is quickly removed from the synaptic cleft by epithelia glial cells that surround the synapse . In these laminar glia , histamine is conjugated to β-alanine by an N-β-alanyl-dopamine synthase , called Ebony , to form the inactive metabolite , carcinine ( Borycz et al . , 2002; Richardt et al . , 2003 , 2002 ) . Recently , a carcinine transporter , CarT that is responsible for the uptake of carcinine from the synaptic cleft into photoreceptors has been identified ( Chaturvedi et al . , 2016; Stenesen et al . , 2015; Xu et al . , 2015 ) . The discovery that CarT retrieves carcinine directly from the laminar synaptic cleft indicates that carcinine is not transported from laminar glia to photoreceptor cell bodies through a long-distance trafficking mechanism involving the laminar glial and pigment cell network . Within photoreceptors , carcinine is hydrolyzed to generate histamine and β-alanine , a reaction catalyzed by an N-β-alanyl-dopamine hydrolase called Tan ( Borycz et al . , 2002; True et al . , 2005 ) . This regenerated histamine is then repackaged into synaptic vesicles for subsequent light-induced release , but it is unclear how β-alanine is returned to the laminar glial cells ( where it is needed to inactivate histamine ) . It is also unclear whether β-alanine recycling is required for visual transmission . The finding that high levels of β-alanine are detected in retinal pigment cells suggested that pigment cells may be critical for the transport and storage of β-alanine in this system ( Borycz et al . , 2012; Chaturvedi et al . , 2014 ) . To address these questions , we sought to determine whether there was a β-alanine transporter that was required for Drosophila vision transmission . Here , we identified BalaT , which is a plasma membrane transporter capable to transporting β-alanine into cells . Mutations in the balat gene disrupted photoreceptor synaptic transmission , phototaxis behaviors , and contents and retinal distribution of β-alanine . BalaT expression in retinal pigment cells completely rescued the defective visual transmission of balat mutants . Furthermore , the gap junction proteins Inx1 and Inx3 were required in retinal pigment cells for visual neurotransmission . We therefore provide evidence for a novel β-alanine recycling pathway , in which β-alanine that is released from photoreceptor cells is taken up and stored by retinal pigment cells , and then delivered to laminar glia via gap junctions , where histamine is inactivated by conjugation with β-alanine . 
The precise roles that oxidants play in lifespan and aging are still unknown . Here , we report the discovery that chronologically aging yeast cells undergo a sudden redox collapse , which affects over 80% of identified thiol-containing proteins . We present evidence that this redox collapse is not triggered by an increase in endogenous oxidants as would have been postulated by the free radical theory of aging . Instead it appears to be instigated by a substantial drop in cellular NADPH , which normally provides the electron source for maintaining cellular redox homeostasis . This decrease in NADPH levels occurs very early during lifespan and sets into motion a cascade that is predicted to down-regulate most cellular processes . Caloric restriction , a near-universal lifespan extending measure , increases NADPH levels and delays each facet of the cascade . Our studies reveal a time line of events leading up to the system-wide oxidation of the proteome days before cell death .  Most living animals undergo a physiological decline with age . Yet , despite decades of intense study , no consensus has emerged regarding the primary cause of this decline . One leading hypothesis is the free radical theory of aging , which postulates that aging is caused by an accumulation of oxidative damage to cellular macromolecules ( Harman , 1956 ) . Many lines of correlative evidence support this theory ( Muller et al . , 2007 ) . However , while these studies confirm the general notion that oxidative damage is associated with aging , recent studies in mice have generated conflicting results as few of the genetic manipulations targeting conserved antioxidant genes showed the predicted effects on lifespan ( Perez et al . , 2009 ) . Hence , the jury is still out on the question of whether oxidative damage is a cause of aging or simply a consequence ( Salmon et al . , 2010 ) . One obstacle in defining the role of oxidants in aging is our lack of knowledge of when , or even if , reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) accumulation causes physiological alterations that are severe enough to affect the lifespan of an organism and whether manipulation of the onset of oxidative stress will alter lifespan . So far , the most commonly used read-out for oxidative protein damage involves detection of protein carbonylation ( Shacter et al . , 1994; Levine , 2002 ) . However , neither the extent of carbonylation nor the specific effect ( s ) of carbonylation on protein activity are easily assessed . To get a better handle on evaluating oxidative protein modifications , we developed a highly sensitive and fully quantitative mass spectrometry-based redox technique ( i . e . , OxICAT ) that allows us to determine the in vivo oxidation status of hundreds of different protein thiols in organisms and to identify the proteins affected ( Leichert et al . , 2008 ) . We recently used OxICAT in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to quantify the steady-state oxidation status of almost 400 different yeast protein thiols and identify those proteins that contain peroxide and redox-sensitive cysteines ( Brandes et al . , 2011 ) . We then reasoned that by monitoring the exact oxidation status of these proteins during the chronological lifespan of yeast , we will obtain a spatial and temporal read-out of the prevailing oxidation conditions during the aging process . We should also be able to uncover protein targets whose oxidative thiol modifications might contribute to the physiological alterations that are observed in aging organisms and might even be able to establish a clear correlation between onset and extent of oxidative stress and lifespan . The chronological lifespan of S . cerevisiae represents a popular model system for analyzing aging in postmitotic cells . Chronological lifespan is defined as the length of time that non-dividing cells remain viable in a high metabolic state ( Fabrizio and Longo , 2007; Fontana et al . , 2010 ) . In support of the free radical theory of aging , chronological lifespan decreases in yeast strains lacking the oxidant scavenging enzymes superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) or catalase ( Longo et al . , 1996 ) and increases when glutathione or SOD levels are elevated ( Harris et al . , 2003 ) . Also , caloric restriction , a nearly universal measure to extend lifespan , has been shown to significantly increase chronological lifespan in yeast ( Fontana et al . , 2010 ) . Although the molecular mechanism by which caloric restriction extends lifespan has not been elucidated , one unifying trait among calorically restricted organisms is a significantly increased oxidative stress resistance ( Barja , 2002 ) . In this study , we used chronologically aging S . cerevisiae to determine the onset , extent , and targets of protein oxidation in postmitotic aging cells . By monitoring the thiol oxidation status of almost 300 different protein thiols , we discovered that yeast cells undergo a global redox collapse that leads to massive thiol oxidation in almost 80% of identified proteins several days prior to cell death . Cluster analysis revealed that this general protein oxidation is preceded by the oxidation of a subset of conserved proteins , one of which is NADPH-dependent thioredoxin reductase , a key enzyme in maintaining redox homeostasis . Redox metabolite and NADPH studies suggested that protein oxidation is triggered by a decrease in cellular NADPH concentration . Consistent with this hypothesis , caloric restriction delayed NADPH decrease , early protein oxidation , global redox collapse , and cell death . Our results suggest that the decrease in cellular NADPH levels initiates oxidation of the cellular redox machinery and triggers system-wide oxidation events , which significantly precede cell death . 
The biological macromolecular world is homochiral and effective enforcement and perpetuation of this homochirality is essential for cell survival . In this study , we present the mechanistic basis of a configuration-specific enzyme that selectively removes D-amino acids erroneously coupled to tRNAs . The crystal structure of dimeric D-aminoacyl-tRNA deacylase ( DTD ) from Plasmodium falciparum in complex with a substrate-mimicking analog shows how it uses an invariant ‘cross-subunit’ Gly-cisPro dipeptide to capture the chiral centre of incoming D-aminoacyl-tRNA . While no protein residues are directly involved in catalysis , the unique side chain-independent mode of substrate recognition provides a clear explanation for DTD’s ability to act on multiple D-amino acids . The strict chiral specificity elegantly explains how the enriched cellular pool of L-aminoacyl-tRNAs escapes this proofreading step . The study thus provides insights into a fundamental enantioselection process and elucidates a chiral enforcement mechanism with a crucial role in preventing D-amino acid infiltration during the evolution of translational apparatus .  The origin of homochirality in biological macromolecules has been a subject of active research and intense debate till date ( Podlech , 2001; Blackmond , 2010 ) . With the selection of only L-amino acids ( L-aas ) for incorporation in proteins , effective enforcement and perpetuation of homochirality became essential for an efficient translational machinery to be a part of living systems . To this end , multiple checkpoints ensure that only L-aas are incorporated during translation . These include aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases ( aaRSs ) , elongation factor Tu ( EF-Tu ) and ribosome ( Jonak et al . , 1980; Pingoud and Urbanke , 1980; Bhuta et al . , 1981; Yamane et al . , 1981; Ban et al . , 2000; Agmon et al . , 2004; Ogle and Ramakrishnan , 2005 ) . Many aaRSs possess proofreading modules that remove similar non-cognate L-aas mistakenly attached to tRNAs and thus ensure fidelity of translation ( Nureki et al . , 1998; Silvian et al . , 1999; Dock-Bregeon et al . , 2004 ) . However , a freestanding enzyme D-aminoacyl-tRNA deacylase ( DTD ) removes D-amino acids ( D-aas ) mischarged on tRNAs and ensures that D-aas do not get incorporated into proteins ( Calendar and Berg , 1967; Wydau et al . , 2009; Zheng et al . , 2009 ) . Since DTDs act in trans as freestanding modules , they are most likely to operate through resampling by recapturing aminoacyl-tRNAs ( aa-tRNAs ) from EF-Tu ( Ling et al . , 2009 ) . A DTD-like fold has been found appended to archaeal threonyl-tRNA synthetase ( ThrRS ) where it removes mischarged L-serine from tRNAThr ( Dwivedi et al . , 2005; Hussain et al . , 2006 , 2010 ) . The structure of archaeal ThrRS editing domain from Pyrococcus abyssi ( Pab-NTD ) not only highlighted the evolutionary link between DTD and Pab-NTD but also suggested the probable role this fold might have played in enforcement of homochirality during early evolution of translational machinery , since weakly discriminating primordial aaRSs would have been less enantioselective ( Dwivedi et al . , 2005 ) . Even some of the highly evolved present day aaRSs have been shown to be inherently weak in enantioselection , leading to the formation of D-aminoacyl-tRNAs ( D-aa-tRNAs ) ( Calendar and Berg , 1966; Soutourina et al . , 2000b ) . D-aa-tRNAs thus formed could either get incorporated into the growing polypeptide chain leading to global misfolding or get accumulated in the cell leading to depletion of tRNA pool . Either way , decoupling of D-aa from tRNA is extremely important which makes the cellular role of DTD crucial . DTD activity was originally identified in 1967 by Calendar and Berg and the function is conserved in all organisms including humans ( Calendar and Berg , 1967; Zheng et al . , 2009 ) . So far three distinct types of DTDs have been reported . The most commonly found canonical DTD has been shown to be present in most bacteria and all eukaryotes ( Soutourina et al . , 1999 ) . Archaea , on the other hand , lack canonical DTD sequence in their genomes and instead possess another structurally unrelated protein which carries out the function of deacylating D-aa-tRNAs ( Ferri-Fioni et al . , 2006 ) . This functional equivalent of DTD has been termed DTD2 and it is found in archaea and plants ( Wydau et al . , 2007 ) . The third type of DTD , known as DTD3 , has been reported in some cyanobacteria that lack both canonical DTD and DTD2 ( Wydau et al . , 2009 ) . Overall , the universal distribution of DTD function across the three domains of life clearly suggests an essential role DTDs must have played and continue to play in enforcing homochirality . From here on , DTD would refer to the canonical DTD found in bacteria and eukaryotes unless otherwise mentioned . The DTD sequence is highly conserved among prokaryotes and eukaryotes with the sequence identity between Escherichia coli and Homo sapiens being 39% . The biological significance of DTD has been shown in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes with deletion of dtd gene leading to reduced tolerance to several D-aas in a dose-dependent manner ( Soutourina et al . , 2000a , 2000b , 2004; Zheng et al . , 2009 ) . DTD is ubiquitously expressed and shows high levels of expression in the human neuronal cells , which are abundant in D-aas , thus strongly indicating a critical role of DTD ( Zheng et al . , 2009 ) . Mechanistically , the most remarkable challenge that DTD faces is to specifically act on multiple D-aa-tRNAs while rejecting L-aminoacyl-tRNAs ( L-aa-tRNAs ) without any specificity for either the amino acid or the tRNA . This can be seen from the fact that DTD is able to act on diverse substrates such as Tyr , Phe , Asp , and Trp as long as they carry a D-configuration of the amino acid on tRNA ( Calendar and Berg , 1967; Soutourina et al . , 2000b ) . The problem is further compounded by the very high excess of L-aa-tRNA over D-aa-tRNA in the cellular milieu and warrants a stringent D-configuration specificity to avoid depletion of L-aa-tRNA pool . Although biochemical studies have indicated its configurational preference , the mechanistic basis of this fundamental process remained elusive due to lack of a cognate substrate-bound complex structure . The first crystal structure of DTD from E . coli ( EcDTD ) was solved in the apo form , which identified this novel DTD-like fold ( Ferri-Fioni et al . , 2001 ) . Later , the apo structures of DTD from Haemophilus influenzae ( Lim et al . , 2003 ) , Aquifex aeolicus ( PDB id: 2DBO ) and H . sapiens ( Kemp et al . , 2007 ) also became available . In the absence of any ligand-bound structure , docking studies were done with H . influenzae DTD in an attempt to understand its mechanism ( Lim et al . , 2003 ) . Recently , the structure of Plasmodium falciparum DTD ( PfDTD ) was solved in complex with ADP and multiple free D-aas ( Bhatt et al . , 2010 ) . Although these studies had proposed a catalytic mechanism implicating the role of a Thr residue , the structural basis of DTD’s strict enantioselectivity was not clear . In this study , we report the mechanism of this crucial process with the help of high resolution structures of PfDTD in complex with a substrate-mimicking analog . We further validate the mechanistic proposal with the help of biochemical assays conducted on PfDTD as well as EcDTD and NMR-based binding studies with PfDTD . The work identifies the essential role of a universally conserved ‘cross-subunit’ Gly-cisPro motif in providing exclusive enantioselectivity to the enzyme thus ensuring homochirality during translation . 
In CFTR , the chloride channel mutated in cystic fibrosis ( CF ) patients , ATP-binding-induced dimerization of two cytosolic nucleotide binding domains ( NBDs ) opens the pore , and dimer disruption following ATP hydrolysis closes it . Spontaneous openings without ATP are rare in wild-type CFTR , but in certain CF mutants constitute the only gating mechanism , stimulated by ivacaftor , a clinically approved CFTR potentiator . The molecular motions underlying spontaneous gating are unclear . Here we correlate energetic coupling between residues across the dimer interface with spontaneous pore opening/closure in single CFTR channels . We show that spontaneous openings are also strictly coupled to NBD dimerization , which may therefore occur even without ATP . Coordinated NBD/pore movements are therefore intrinsic to CFTR: ATP alters the stability , but not the fundamental structural architecture , of open- and closed-pore conformations . This explains correlated effects of phosphorylation , mutations , and drugs on ATP-driven and spontaneous activity , providing insights for understanding CF mutation and drug mechanisms .  The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator ( CFTR ) is a chloride ion channel which belongs to the superfamily of ATP binding cassette ( ABC ) proteins ( Riordan et al . , 1989 ) . Following phosphorylation of the cytosolic regulatory ( R ) domain by cAMP-dependent protein kinase ( PKA ) , CFTR channels are gated by cytosolic ATP ( Figure 1a ) . The ion pore within the TMDs opens upon formation of a tight head-to-tail NBD dimer stabilized by two molecules of ATP occluded at the dimer interface ( Vergani et al . , 2005 ) ; each nucleotide is sandwiched between the conserved Walker A and B sequences of one NBD and the signature sequence of the other ( Smith et al . , 2002; Chen et al . , 2003 ) . Pore closure accompanies NBD dimer disruption prompted by ATP hydrolysis at the composite interfacial site harbouring the Walker motifs of NBD2 ( site 2 ) ( Vergani et al . , 2005 ) : the other site ( site 1 ) is catalytically inactive retaining ATP bound throughout multiple gating cycles ( Aleksandrov et al . , 2002; Basso et al . , 2003 ) . As evidence of such strict coupling between NBD and transmembrane domain ( TMD ) movements , a hydrogen bond between the side chains of NBD2 Walker-A threonine ( T1246 ) and an arginine ( R555 ) adjacent to the NBD1 signature sequence was shown to form in open , but not in closed , channels ( Vergani et al . , 2005 ) . These two positions have co-evolved as a pair ( Vergani et al . , 2005 ) , and in crystal structures of nucleotide-bound ABC NBD dimers the analogous side chains also form a hydrogen bond , the arginine serving as hydrogen donor and the threonine/serine side chain as acceptor ( Smith et al . , 2002; Chen et al . , 2003 ) . Furthermore , by disturbing proper spacing between the donor and acceptor sites , both shortening of the R555 and lengthening of the T1246 side chains ( by single mutations R555K and T1246N , respectively ) prevent , whereas the double mutation R555K-T1246N restores , the formation of this stabilizing hydrogen bond ( Vergani et al . , 2005 ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 18164 . 003Figure 1 . The P355A-K978C double mutation increases both spontaneous and ATP-dependent Po . ( a , c ) Inward macroscopic ( a ) WT and ( c ) P355A-K978C CFTR currents at −80 mV , and their dependence on ATP and PKA ( black bars ) . In ( a ) a 30 s segment of spontaneous current ( gray box ) is magnified in the inset . In ( c ) bath chloride ( green bars ) was repeatedly replaced by gluconate ( red bars ) to determine baseline current ( gray dashed line ) . ( b ) Two alternative mechanisms of spontaneous gating in cartoon representation . TMDs ( gray ) , TMD-NBD interface formed by intracellular loops ( light violet ) , NBD1 ( green ) , NBD2 ( blue ) , membrane ( yellow ) . ( d ) Spontaneous Po ( solid bars ) and Po in 2 mM ATP ( striped bars ) for WT and P355A-K978C ( 'background' , BG ) CFTR ( n = 5–21 ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 18164 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 18164 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Replacement of bath chloride with gluconate abolishes CFTR currents at -80 mV . Normalized macroscopic current-voltage relationships of WT CFTR under chloride ( out ) /chloride ( in ) ( green symbols ) and chloride ( out ) /gluconate ( in ) ( red symbols ) ionic conditions ( n = 6–9 ) . For both ionic conditions macroscopic steady CFTR currents in 2 mM ATP , and background currents in the absence of ATP , were sampled at membrane voltages ranging from −80 to +80 mV , and ATP-dependent currents normalized to that measured at +80 mV . The Red solid line is a fit to the Goldman-Hodgkin-Katz equation , the green solid line is a linear interpolation between data points . Note mild inward rectification in symmetrical chloride ( Cai et al . , 2003 ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 18164 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 18164 . 005Figure 1—figure supplement 2 . High ATP-dependent Po due to background mutation facilitates counting channels . ( a–b ) , Open probabilities in 2 mM ATP , following PKA removal , for WT CFTR and for the four constructs that form the mutant cycle . Po was estimated from the last ~2-minutes of the 2 . 5-minute segments of recording in 2 mM ATP , bracketing the 5-minute ATP-free period during which spontaneous activity was sampled ( n = 6–17 ) . ( a ) Front bracket , ( b ) rear bracket ( see Figure 2a–d ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 18164 . 005 Wild-type ( WT ) CFTR channels open occasionally even in the absence of ATP ( Szollosi et al . , 2010 ) ( Figure 1a , inset ) , but it is unclear whether this reflects the occasional spontaneous formation of the NBD dimer ( Figure 1b , top ) , or occasional pore openings independent of NBD dimerization ( Figure 1b , bottom ) . The significance of this question goes beyond the scarcity of WT spontaneous openings . Indeed , the strictness of coupling between NBD and TMD movements is a strongly debated fundamental question , key for understanding the forces that drive the normal , ATP-dependent functional cycle of ABC proteins ( Vergani et al . , 2005; Csanády et al . , 2010; Kirk and Wang , 2011; Jih and Hwang , 2013; Okeyo et al . , 2013 ) . Moreover , ivacaftor , the only potentiator drug to be approved so far for clinical use in CF patients , acts by promoting such spontaneous , ATP-independent , openings of G551D CFTR , the third most common disease mutant ( Bompadre et al . , 2007; Jih et al . , 2013 ) . However , mechanistic understanding of spontaneous gating has been limited by its vanishingly small open probability ( Po ) , far too low to be reliably quantified ( Figure 1a ) . Recently , mutations in the third intracellular loop ( position 978 , between TM helices 8 and 9 ) ( Wang et al . , 2010 ) , and at the cytosolic end of pore-lining TM helix 6 ( position 355 ) ( Wei et al . , 2014 ) , were both found to strongly enhance spontaneous activity . Furthermore , these 'gain-of-function' effects proved additive in the double-mutant P355A–K978C , shifting spontaneous Po into a range where quantitative biophysical studies become tractable ( Wei et al . , 2014 ) . Here we exploit this double mutant as a background to address the mechanism of spontaneous openings . 
We present a mechanism for a generic , powerful force of assembly and mobility for transmembrane proteins in lipid bilayers . This force is a pre-transition ( or pre-melting ) effect for the first-order transition between ordered and disordered phases in the membrane . Using large-scale molecular simulation , we show that a protein with hydrophobic thickness equal to that of the disordered phase embedded in an ordered bilayer stabilizes a microscopic order–disorder interface . The stiffness of that interface is finite . When two such proteins approach each other , they assemble because assembly reduces the net interfacial energy . Analogous to the hydrophobic effect , we refer to this phenomenon as the 'orderphobic effect' . The effect is mediated by proximity to the order–disorder phase transition and the size and hydrophobic mismatch of the protein . The strength and range of forces arising from this effect are significantly larger than those that could arise from membrane elasticity for the membranes considered .  We choose the MARTINI model of hydrated dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine ( DPPC ) lipid bilayers ( Marrink et al . , 2007 ) to illustrate the orderphobic effect . See Materials and methods . This membrane model exhibits an ordered phase and a disordered phase . Figure 1A contrasts configurations from the two phases , and it shows our estimated phase boundary between the two phases . The ordered phase has regular tail packing compared to the disorganized tail arrangement of the disordered phase . A consequence of the regular tail packing is that hydrophobic thickness of the ordered phase , 𝒟o is larger than that of the disordered phase , 𝒟d . Correspondingly , the area per lipid in the ordered phase is smaller than that in the disordered phase . 10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 003Figure 1 . First-order phase transition in a model lipid bilayer . ( A ) Order–disorder phase diagram in the tension–temperature , λ−T , plane . The lateral pressure across the membrane is −λ . Points are estimated from 10 independent heating runs like those illustrated in Appendix 1–figure 1 for a periodic system with 128 lipids . Insets are cross sections showing configurations of a bilayer with 3200 lipids in the ordered and disordered phases . The heads are colored gray while the tails are colored pink . Water particles are omitted for clarity . The hydrophobic thicknesses , 𝒟o and 𝒟d , are the average vertical distances from the first tail particle of the upper monolayer to that of the lower monolayer . A macroscopic membrane buckles for all λ < 0 . Snapshots of the last tail beads in one monolayer of each phase are shown to illustrate the difference in packing . ( B ) Snapshot of a system showing coexistence between the ordered and disordered phases . The gray contour line indicates the location of the interface separating the ordered and disordered regions . The snapshot is a top view of the bilayer showing the tail-end particles of each lipid in one monolayer . h ( x ) is the distance of the instantaneous interface from a reference horizontal axis . ( C ) Fourier spectrum of h ( x ) . The line is the small-k capillarity-theory behavior with γ=11 . 5 pN . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 003 Rendering the end particles of all the lipid chains in one of the two monolayers provides a convenient visual representation that distinguishes the two phases . These tail-end particles appear hexagonally-packed in the ordered phase and randomly arranged in the disordered phase . Regions that appear empty in this rendering are in fact typically filled by non tail-end particles or by tail-end particles from the other lipid monolayer . To quantify the distinctions between the two phases , we consider a local rotational-invariant ( Nelson , 2002; Halperin and Nelson , 1978; Frenkel et al . , 1980 ) , ϕl=| ( 1/6 ) ∑j∈nn ( l ) exp⁡ ( 6iθlj ) |2 , where θlj is the angle between an arbitrary axis and a vector connecting tail-end particle l to tail-end particle j , and the summation is over the six nearest neighbors of particle l . The equilibrium average , ⟨ϕl⟩ , is 1 for a perfect hexagonal packing , and it is 1/6 or smaller in the absence of bond-orientation correlations . Small periodically replicated samples of the hydrated DPPC membrane exhibit hysteretic changes in area per lipid and in ⟨ϕl⟩ during heating and cooling . See Appendix , and Marrink et al . ( 2005 ) and Rodgers et al . ( 2012 ) . To establish whether the first-order-like behavior persists to large scales and thus actually manifests a phase transition , we consider larger systems and the behavior of the interface that separates the ordered and disordered phases . Figure 1B shows coexistence for a system size of N = 3900 lipids with an interface between the two phases . To analyze interfacial fluctuations , we first identify the location of the interface at each instant . This location is found with a two-dimensional version of the three-dimensional constructions described in Limmer and Chandler ( 2014 ) and Willard and Chandler ( 2010 ) . Specifically , and as discussed in Materials and methods , the interface is the line in the plane of the bilayer with an intermediate coarse-grained value of the orientational-order density , ( 1 ) ϕ ( r ) =∑lϕlδ ( r−rl ) . where rl is the position of the lth tail-end particle projected onto a plane parallel to that of the bilayer , r is a two-dimensional vector specifying a position in that plane , and δ ( r ) is Dirac’s delta function . We focus on this field rather than the tail-end number density , ρ ( r ) =∑lδ ( r−rl ) , because the difference between the two phases is larger for typical orientational-order than for typical tail-end density . A director density field , u ( r ) =∑lulδ ( r−rl ) , could also be used to distinguish disordered regions from ordered regions . ul would specify the degree to which the hydrophobic chain of lipid l is perpendicular to the average plane of the membrane . A field of this form would be useful for systems where liquid-ordered behavior occurs in the absence of solid-ordered behavior . Multicomponent membranes , for example , can exist in solid-ordered , liquid-ordered , and liquid-disordered states . For constructing the order–disorder interface of the simple one-component membrane considered here , however , u ( r ) offers little more information than ϕ ( r ) . Figure 1C shows the Fourier spectrum of the height fluctuations of this interface , ⟨|δhk|2⟩ . Two different system sizes are studied , with the larger system having approximately double the interface length of the smaller system . The Fourier component δhk is related to the height fluctuation δh ( x ) as δh ( x ) =∑kδhkexp⁡ ( ikx ) where x is a point along the horizontal in Figure 1B . Here , 0⩽x⩽L , and L is the box length . With periodic boundary conditions , k=2πm/L , m=0 , ±1 , ±2 , ⋯ . According to capillarity theory for crystal–liquid interfaces ( Nozières , 1992; Fisher et al . , 1982 ) , ⟨|δhk|2⟩∼kBT/Lγk2 for small k , with kB being Boltzmann’s constant . Given the proportionality with 1/k2 at small k ( i . e . , wavelengths larger than 10 nm ) , comparison of the proportionality constants from simulation and capillarity theory determines the interfacial stiffness ( Camley et al . , 2010 ) , yielding γ=11 . 5±0 . 46 pN . This value is significantly larger than the prior estimate of interfacial stiffness for this model , 3±2 pN ( Marrink et al . , 2005 ) . That prior estimate was obtained from simulations of coarsening of the ordered phase . Because the ordered phase has a hexagonal packing , the interfacial stiffness depends on the angle between the interface and the lattice of the ordered phase . For a hexagonal lattice , there are three symmetric orientations for which the interfacial stiffnesses are equal . We will see that for the model we have simulated there appears to be only little angle dependence . Irrespective of that angle dependence , the stability of the interface and the quantitative consistency with capillary scaling provide our evidence for the order–disorder transition being a first-order transition in the model we have simulated . The system sizes we have considered contain up to 107 particles , allowing for membranes with N ≈ 104 lipids , and requiring 10 μs to equilibrate . As such , our straightforward simulations are unable to determine whether the ordered phase is hexatic or crystal because correlation functions that would distinguish one from the other ( Nelson et al . , 1982 ) require equilibrating systems at least 10 times larger ( Bernard and Krauth , 2011 ) . Similarly , we are unable to determine the range of conditions for which the membranes organize with ripples and with tilted lipids ( Sirota et al . , 1988; Smith et al . , 1990 ) . Presumably , the ordered domain of the phase diagram in Figure 1A partitions into several subdomains coinciding with one or more of these possibilities . With advanced sampling techniques ( Frenkel and Smit , 2001 ) , free energy functions of characteristic order parameters can be computed to estimate the positions of boundaries between these various ordered behaviors . Here , we do not pursue this additional level of detail in the phase diagram because the additional boundaries refer to continuous transitions ( Sirota et al . , 1988 ) . It is only the first-order transition , with its discontinuous change between ordered and disordered phases , that supports coexistence with a finite interfacial stiffness , and it is this stiffness that results in the orderphobic effect , which we turn to now . A disordering ( i . e . , orderphobic ) transmembrane protein is one that solvates more favorably in the disordered phase than in the ordered phase . The disordering effect of the protein could be produced by specific side chain structures . See Appendix . Here , in the main text , we consider a simpler mechanism . In particular , we have chosen to focus on the size of the protein’s hydrophobic thickness and the extent to which that thickness matches the thickness of the membrane’s hydrophobic layer ( Killian , 1998; Sharpe et al . , 2010 ) . See Figure 2 . 10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 004Figure 2 . Model proteins in the bilayer . ( A ) Idealized cylindrical protein-like solutes with radius R and hydrophobic thickness ℓ ( magenta ) . The hydrophilic caps of the protein are shown in white . ( B ) Cross section of the lipid bilayer in the ordered phase containing a model protein of radius 2 . 7 nm with a hydrophobic thickness ℓ=2 . 3 nm ≤𝒟d . ( C ) The radial variation of the order parameters ⟨ϕ ( r ) ⟩ ( right axis ) and ⟨ϕ ( r ) ⟩/⟨ρ ( r ) ⟩ ( left axis ) show disorder in the vicinity of the protein of radius 1 . 9 nm . ( D ) Comparison of the radial order parameter variation for three different proteins shows an increase in the extent of the induced disorder region with protein radius . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 004 The membrane’s hydrophobic layer is thicker in the ordered state than in the disordered state . For instance , at zero lateral pressure and 294 K in the model DPPC membrane , we find that the average thicknesses of the hydrophobic layers in the ordered and disordered states are 𝒟o=3 . 1 nm and 𝒟d=2 . 6 nm , respectively . A transmembrane protein with hydrophobic thickness of size ℓ≈2 . 6 nm will therefore favor the structure of the disordered phase . If the protein is large enough , it can melt the ordered phase near the protein and result in the formation of an order–disorder interface . To evaluate whether a model protein is nucleating a disordered domain in its vicinity , we calculate the average of the orientational-order density field as a function of r=|r| , ⟨ϕ ( r ) ⟩ ( right axis of Figure 2C ) . It exhibits oscillations manifesting the atomistic granularity of the system . Dividing by the mean density ⟨ρ ( r ) ⟩ largely removes these oscillations . A profile of this ratio in the vicinity of the protein is depicted in Figure 2C ( left axis ) . It changes approximately sigmoidally , connecting its values of 0 . 15 and 0 . 45 in the disordered and ordered phases , respectively . The shape of the profile suggests the formation of an order–disorder interface ( Rowlinson and Widom , 1982 ) . Further , the increase in the spatial extent of the disordered region with the increasing size of the protein , Figure 2D , is indicative of length scale dependent broadening effects brought about by capillary fluctuations . These impressions can be quantified by analyzing fluctuations of the instantaneous interface , which we turn to now . Figure 3A shows a configuration of the instantaneous interface that forms around the orderphobic protein shown in Figure 2B . The interface is identified as described above . A video of its dynamics is provided as Video 1 . As is common in crystal–liquid interfaces , the interface nucleated by an orderphobic protein may exhibit hexagonal faceting ( Nozières , 1992 ) , remnants of which can be observed in Figure 3A . 10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 005Figure 3 . Soft order–disorder interface . ( A ) Arrangement of the tail-end particles of the top monolayer corresponding to the protein in Figure 2B . Far away from the protein , the tail-end particles show hexagonal-like packing and are in the ordered state . Proximal to the protein , it can be seen that the tail-end particles are randomly arranged , and resemble the disordered phase . The line connected by the black points denotes the instantaneous order–disorder interface . ( B ) The fluctuations in the radius of the order–disorder interface are consistent with the fluctuations of a free order–disorder interface at coexistence . ℛ0 is the mean radius of the order–disorder interface surrounding a model protein of radius R . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 00510 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 006Video 1 . Instantaneous interface around an orderphobic protein . Also uploaded to https://goo . gl/NBQJP9 . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 006 The mean interface is a circle of radius ℛ0 . Fourier analysis of fluctuations about that circle yields a spectrum of components . To the extent that these fluctuations obey statistics of capillary wave theory for a circular interface , the mean-square fluctuation for the kth component is ⟨|δℛk|2⟩=kBT/2πγk2ℛ0 , where k=m/ℛ0 and m=±1 , ±2 , ⋯ , and γ is the order–disorder interfacial stiffness , neglecting the dependence on the angle between the interface and the lattice . The discrete values of k reflect periodic boundary conditions going full circle around the model protein . In Figure 3B , we use the interfacial stiffness from the free interface ( γ=11 . 5 pN ) separating coexisting ordered and disordered phases with the capillary theory expression , and its corresponding spectrum , to compare with the spectrum of the protein-induced interface . The agreement between the theory , the free interface and the protein-induced interface is good , and it improves as the radius of the orderphobic protein increases and the wave vector k decreases . This agreement indicates that the orderphobic protein does indeed nucleate an interface manifesting the order–disorder transition . The deviations of the fluctuations of the free interface from capillary wave theory occur for k≳0 . 8 nm−1 , corresponding to wavelengths 2π/k≲7 nm , and a mean interface radius ℛ0≲1 nm . Indeed , Figure 2 suggests that even a small protein of radius 0 . 5 nm , which supports an interface of radius ℛ0≈1 . 2 nm , is sufficient to induce an order–disorder interface with fluctuations consistent with capillary theory . Figure 4 shows three snapshots from a typical trajectory initiated with two orderphobic proteins of radius 1 . 5 nm separated by a distance of 14 nm . Each induces a disordered region in its vicinity , with soft interfaces separating the ordered and disordered regions . The free energy of the separated state is approximately γ ( P1+P2 ) , where Pi is the perimeter of the order–disorder interface around protein i . On average , ⟨Pi⟩=2πℛ0 . After a few hundred nanoseconds , a fluctuation occurs where the two interfaces combine . While the single large interface remains intact , the finite tension of the interface pulls the two proteins together . Eventually , the tension pulls the two proteins together with a final perimeter , Pf , that is typically much smaller than P1+P2 . A video of its dynamics is provided as Video 2 . 10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 007Figure 4 . Demonstration of the orderphobic force: two proteins separated by a center-to-center distance of 14 nm are simulated at 309 K . Snapshots at various times reveal the process of assembly in which the two order–disorder interfaces merge into a single interface . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 00710 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 008Video 2 . Assembly of two orderphobic proteins . Also uploaded to https://goo . gl/HXS0j7 . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 008 After the separated interfaces join , the assembly process occurs on the time scale of microseconds . This time is required for the proteins to push away lipids that lie in the path of the assembling proteins . Given this time scale , a reversible work calculation of the binding free energy would best control both the distance and the number of lipids between the proteins . Moreover , the evident role of interfacial fluctuations indicates that the transition state ensemble for assembly must involve an interplay between inter-protein separations and lipid ordering as well as lipid concentration . While we leave the study of reversible work surfaces and transition state ensembles to future work , it seems already clear that the net driving force for assembly is large compared to thermal energies . For example , with a model orderphobic protein radius of 1 . 5 nm , we find γ ( ⟨Pf⟩−2⟨P1⟩ ) ≈−30kBT . The range over which the force acts is given by the average radius of the two interfaces , 2ℛ0 . This range is further amplified by the width of the interface , which is of 𝒪 ( ℛ0 ) for one-dimensional interfaces in two-dimensional systems ( Kardar , 2007 ) . The typical range is ≈10 to 30 nm . In comparison , given the elastic moduli of the membranes we consider , elastic responses will generate attractive forces between transmembrane proteins that are much smaller in strength and range , typically −5kBT and 1 nm , respectively ( Haselwandter and Phillips , 2013; de Meyer et al . , 2008 ) . Moreover , similarly weak and short ranged forces are found from solvation theory that accounts for linear response in microscopic detail while not accounting for the possibility of an underlying phase transition ( Lagüe et al . , 1998 ) . As in the hydrophobic effect ( Chandler , 2005 ) , the strength and range of the orderphobic force leverages the power of a phase transition , depending in this case on the ability of the orderphobic protein to induce a disordered layer in its vicinity . This ability depends upon the proximity to the membrane’s phase transition , and , for the simple protein models considered in this paper , it depends upon the protein’s radius and hydrophobic mismatch with the membrane . The spatial extent of the disordered region increases with proximity to phase coexistence as shown in Figure 5A . 10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 009Figure 5 . Strength of the orderphobic force . ( A ) Radial variation of the order parameter showing the extent of the disordered region as a function of temperature , for a protein of radius 1 . 9 nm and hydrophobic thickness 2 . 3 nm . The extent of the disordered region increases as the melting temperature is approached , at zero surface tension . ( B ) Comparison of the radial variation of the order parameter for different hydrophobic mismatches . Proteins with no mismatch do not create any disordered region . ( C ) Arrangement of lipids around a protein with negative mismatch . ( D ) Arrangement of lipids around a protein with zero mismatch . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 13150 . 009 Furthermore , Figure 5B shows that the strength of the effect is maximal for a hydrophobic thickness equal to that of the disordered phase , and it decreases as the hydrophobic thickness approaches that of the ordered phase . In the case of zero mismatch ( i . e . , ℓ=𝒟o ) the value of the order parameter in the vicinity of the protein is consistent with that of a pure bilayer in the ordered state . Therefore , the model proteins with zero mismatch do not induce a disordered region , and the orderphobic effect vanishes . See Figure 5B and D . Figure 4 also shows that the orderphobic effect produces excess mobility , by proteins melting order in a surrounding microscopic layer and by facilitating the motions of neighboring proteins . This finding explains how protein mobility and reorganization can be relatively facile in the so-called 'gel' phases of membranes . Further information on this phenomenon is provided in Appendix . Our prediction of enhanced lipid mobility surrounding orderphobic proteins may be amenable to experimental tests by single molecule tracking techniques ( Eggeling et al . , 2009 ) . Biological membranes and transmembrane proteins are far more complicated than the models considered in this paper . Part of the complexity is associated with multiple components , which allow for more than one order–disorder transition . For example , with a membrane composed of three components , coexistence can be established between liquid-ordered and liquid-disordered phases ( Veatch and Keller , 2005 ) , and both of these phases exist in bio-membranes ( Swamy et al . , 2006; Owen et al . , 2012; Polozov et al . , 2008 ) . The fact that liquid-ordered and liquid-disordered phases can coexist with finite line tension ( Veatch and Keller , 2005 ) implies the existence of a first-order transition between them ( Chandler , 1987 ) and thus the relevance of the orderphobic effect . This effect is much wider in applicability than the Casimir effect ( Machta et al . , 2012 ) , which applies only within the much smaller range of conditions where the first-order transition reaches its limiting case of criticality . A director density for hydrophobic chains serves as the order parameter distinguishing liquid-ordered and liquid-disordered phases . The strength and range of orderphobic effects that will arise from this order–disorder transition merit future investigation . Modeling might build from recent numerical work on the liquid-ordered phase ( Risselada and Marrink , 2008 ) . Bear in mind that the strength and range of the orderphobic effect depends upon the proximity of the order–disorder transition . This proximity can be changed by changing temperature , as illustrated in Figure 5A . With many components in play , the proximity can also be changed by varying membrane composition . One can therefore anticipate that the strength and range of orderphobic effects will depend upon , for example , cholesterol concentrations . It will also depend upon the presence of additional proteins , and the domains formed with those proteins themselves depend upon the orderphobic effect . Another source of complexity is the side-chain structure of transmembrane proteins . These side chains can affect the packing of lipid chains . To the extent that lipid packing is disrupted , even small α-helix proteins can be orderphobic . Evidence for this assessment is provided in Appendix . Thus , the orderphobic effect can lead to clustering of transmembrane α-helices . Moreover , just as the strength and range of the orderphobic effect can be modified by changing the radius and mismatch of our model proteins , the strength and range of the orderphobic effect will also be affected by the structure of protein side chains . Further , an obvious consequence of the orderphobic effect is the existence of a driving force that will move orderphobic proteins from an ordered phase to a disordered phase , and the creation of large disordered domains as a result of clustering orderphobic proteins . Both of these effects have been noted in simulations of disordering α-helix proteins in a membrane exhibiting coexisting liquid-ordered and liquid disordered domains ( Schäfer et al . , 2011; Domański et al . , 1818 ) . Further , there is a dual to the orderphobic effect: a transmembrane protein in the disordered phase that favors the ordered phase can nucleate an ordered region and order–disorder interface . For example , one of our model proteins with a positive mismatch ( ℓ=𝒟o ) would induce order in its vicinity . This effect is illustrated in the Appendix . Interfaces separating the ordered and disordered regions will again provide a force for assembly . This case corresponds to the situation of lipid rafts ( Simons and Ikonen , 1997 ) , which consists of ordered domains floating in otherwise disordered membranes . The stable interface separating domains then serves as a concrete geometrical definition of the raft . This orderphilic effect will depend upon the extent to which the surface of the transmembrane protein is commensurate with the ordered phase structure . Hydrophobic mismatch is but one possibility . β-sheets that align neighboring lipids are others . The fact that the orderphilic effect is a pre-transition effect for the first-order transition between ordered and disordered phases implies it should occur in disordered membranes that are thermodynamically close to coexistence between liquid-ordered and liquid-disordered phases . The orderphobic effect may also be of direct relevance in understanding the behavior of lung-surfactant monolayers . The primary component of these monolayers is the lipid DPPC , with melting temperature higher than physiological temperature ( 41°C ) , and a small proportion of cholesterol , and proteins . These monolayers undergo cyclic surface tension mediated phase transitions between the ordered and disordered phases ( Nag et al . , 1998 ) . The results of this paper are also applicable to lipid monolayers and could govern the diffusion and assembly of proteins embedded within the relatively rigid ordered phases . Finally , we speculate that the orderphobic effect plays important roles in membrane fusion , budding , and cell signaling ( Fratti et al . , 2004; Zick et al . , 2014; Qi et al . , 2001; James and Vale , 2012; Różycki et al . , 2012 ) . In the case of fusion , it would appear that one important role is to promote fluctuations in an otherwise stable membrane . Otherwise , it is difficult to conceive of a mechanism by which thermal agitation would be sufficient to destabilize microscopic sections of membranes . Such destabilization seems necessary for initiating and facilitating membrane fusion . Many proteins are involved in such processes ( Fratti et al . , 2004; Fasshauer et al . , 1998; Wickner and Schekman , 2008 ) , but it may not be a coincidence that the hydrophobic thicknesses of SNARE proteins are 25% smaller than that of the ordered membrane states ( Milovanovic et al . , 2015; Stein et al . , 2015 ) . 
Fluorescent calcium indicators are often used to investigate neural dynamics , but the relationship between fluorescence and action potentials ( APs ) remains unclear . Most APs can be detected when the soma almost fills the microscope’s field of view , but calcium indicators are used to image populations of neurons , necessitating a large field of view , generating fewer photons per neuron , and compromising AP detection . Here , we characterized the AP-fluorescence transfer function in vivo for 48 layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in primary visual cortex , with simultaneous calcium imaging and cell-attached recordings from transgenic mice expressing GCaMP6s or GCaMP6f . While most APs were detected under optimal conditions , under conditions typical of population imaging studies , only a minority of 1 AP and 2 AP events were detected ( often <10% and ~20–30% , respectively ) , emphasizing the limits of AP detection under more realistic imaging conditions .  Genetically encoded calcium indicators ( GECIs ) are widely used with two-photon laser scanning microscopy to report neuronal activity within local populations in vivo ( Luo et al . , 2018 ) . This optical approach is minimally invasive and enables simultaneous measurement of activity from hundreds or even thousands of neurons at single-cell resolution , over multiple sessions . Using a contemporary GECI such as GCaMP6s , fluorescence changes associated with isolated spikes ( action potentials , APs ) in vivo can be detected when imaged at sufficiently high spatiotemporal resolution ( Chen et al . , 2013 ) ( http://dx . doi . org/10 . 6080/K02R3PMN ) . Yet undetected APs are common in population imaging experiments ( Theis et al . , 2016; Berens et al . , 2018 ) . Inferring the underlying AP train or firing rate from calcium imaging remains challenging for several reasons . First , population imaging studies necessarily employ a large field of view containing many neurons . In contrast , the AP to calcium-dependent fluorescence transfer function is typically characterized with a soma filling the field of view of the microscope , to maximize photon flux from the soma and thereby signal-to-noise ratio . Second , there is no ground truth spiking information available for most neurons in a population . Spiking information , often from a cell-attached recording , can be used to refine the spike inference model and thereby optimize AP detection . Third , the AP to calcium-dependent fluorescence transfer function may be different for each neuron due to various intrinsic and extrinsic factors , such as neuron-to-neuron differences in indicator expression . Compared to viral expression , transgenic mouse lines offer convenience ( e . g . bypassing virus injection and associated procedures ) and achieve more uniform GECI expression in genetically defined neuronal populations ( Madisen et al . , 2015; Daigle et al . , 2018 ) . Using our intersectional transgenic mouse lines that enable Cre recombinase-dependent expression of GCaMP6s or GCaMP6f , we simultaneously characterized the spiking activity and fluorescence of individual GECI-expressing pyramidal neurons in layer 2/3 of mouse primary visual cortex ( V1 ) . We then tested the performance of several spike inference models , detecting APs under optimal conditions ( models refined using the spiking information , with the soma filling the field of view ) and under the less optimal conditions typical of population imaging experiments . Our results provide insight into the relationship between spiking activity in vivo and fluorescence signals and will aid the interpretation of existing and future calcium imaging datasets . 
We report a functional switching valve within the female genitalia of the Brazilian cave insect Neotrogla . The valve complex is composed of two plate-like sclerites , a closure element , and in-and-outflow canals . Females have a penis-like intromittent organ to coercively anchor males and obtain voluminous semen . The semen is packed in a capsule , whose formation is initiated by seminal injection . It is not only used for fertilization but also consumed by the female as nutrition . The valve complex has two slots for insemination so that Neotrogla can continue mating while the first slot is occupied . In conjunction with the female penis , this switching valve is a morphological novelty enabling females to compete for seminal gifts in their nutrient-poor cave habitats through long copulation times and multiple seminal injections . The evolution of this switching valve may have been a prerequisite for the reversal of the intromittent organ in Neotrogla .  Many man-made engineering solutions have evolved already in insects . Such examples include hinges ( flapping flight enabled by the wing base: Brodsky , 1994 ) , on-off valves ( spiracle openings to regulate airflow: Chapman , 1998 ) , backflow valves ( the bombardier beetle's defensive spray: Arndt et al . , 2015 ) , coiling mechanisms ( genital tubes: Matsumura et al . , 2017a ) or catapult-like mechanisms ( the legs of many jumping insects: Burrows , 2013 ) . Some mechanisms that were formerly thought to be unique to human engineering have been discovered recently in insects: biological screws have been found in a beetle's leg ( van de Kamp et al . , 2011 ) , and interacting gears were found in the jumping legs of planthoppers ( Burrows and Sutton , 2013 ) . The design and construction of such mechanisms on a micrometer scale is a challenging task in engineering ( Feinberg et al . , 2001 ) . Therefore , studies of micron-scale biological structures can be rewarding as they illuminate construction principles in insects that could be applied to technical solutions in engineering ( Matsumura et al . , 2017b ) . The genus Neotrogla ( family Prionoglarididae ) is a minute Brazilian cave insect belonging to the order Psocodea ( booklice , barklice , and parasitic lice ) . This genus is of special evolutionary and morphological interest because of the reversal in its genital structures ( Yoshizawa et al . , 2014 ) . The females of Neotrogla have a penis-like intromittent organ ( gynosome: Figure 1A ) , which is inserted to a male vagina-like genital cavity for copulation . During mating , the male injects liquid semen into the female’s sperm storage organ ( spermatheca ) through the opening of the spermathcal duct at the tip of the female penis . Within the spermatheca , the injected semen then induces the formation of a hard capsule shell around itself ( Figure 1A , B: Wearing-Wilde ( 1995 ) ; Yoshizawa et al . , 2014 ) . Although there is only a single inlet spermathecal duct present , occasionally two seminal capsules are attached simultaneously to a plate-like structure on the spermatheca ( termed ‘spermathecal plate’: [Lienhard et al . , 1893; Yoshizawa et al . , 2014] ) . The semen within the capsule is used not only for fertilization but is also consumed by the female as nutrition . To compete for nutritious semen , the direction of sexual selection is reversed in Neotrogla ( sex-role reversal: Yoshizawa et al . , 2014 ) . Each seminal capsule is voluminous ( ~0 . 05 mm3 , corresponding to ~300 ml scaled up to humans ) , and the duration of the copulation is very long ( for 40 to 70 hr ) . In a closely related species lacking reversal of genital structure ( Lepinotus patruelis , Trogiidae ) , the seminal transfer for forming a similarly voluminous seminal capsule is known to complete in 50 min ( Wearing-Wilde , 1995 ) . The female penis of Neotrogla bears a lot of spines , by which females anchor a male coercively during copulation . Therefore , females are obviously responsible for this very long copulation , probably to obtain more semen from a male ( Yoshizawa et al . , 2014 ) . After consumption of the semen , the empty capsule is detached from the plate , which is kept within the spermatheca . Because females frequently have empty capsules within the spermathecal pouch ( in an extreme case , up to nine empty capsules and two filled ones attached to the plate were observed: Yoshizawa et al . , 2014 ) , female Neotrogla can be considered polyandrous , which is apparently controlled actively by the female . Although several examples of sex-role reversed animals induced by seminal gifting have been reported , Neotrogla so far is the only example with a morphological reversal of its intromittent organs ( Kamimura and Yoshizawa , 2017 ) . This morphological reversal seems to require further upstream modifications of the genital system , such as the formation of the spermathecal plate , which was reported as an additional novelty tightly associated with the seminal gifting ( Lienhard et al . , 1893; Yoshizawa et al . , 2014 ) . However , the detailed morphology and function of this spermathecal plate , which presumably plays an important role in the evolution of the female penis , remained unclear due to the extremely small size of the involved subcomponents and their fragile spatial composition . In this study , we investigated the structure of the spermathecal plate by using a combination of confocal laser scanning microscopy ( CLSM ) and high-resolution synchrotron microcomputed tomography ( HR-µCT ) to assess the functional morphology of sperm storage and control of seminal flow . We examined three species of Neotrogla ( N . brasiliensis , N . aurora and N . truncata ) , the spermathecal morphology of which is practically identical ( Lienhard et al . , 1893 ) . Based on the results , we discuss the evolutionary significance of this plate during the evolution of the reversed intromittent organs in Neotrogla . 
Synaptic-soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment receptor ( SNARE ) proteins couple their stage-wise folding/assembly to rapid exocytosis of neurotransmitters in a Munc18-1-dependent manner . The functions of the different assembly stages in exocytosis and the role of Munc18-1 in SNARE assembly are not well understood . Using optical tweezers , we observed four distinct stages of assembly in SNARE N-terminal , middle , C-terminal , and linker domains ( or NTD , MD , CTD , and LD , respectively ) . We found that SNARE layer mutations differentially affect SNARE assembly . Comparison of their effects on SNARE assembly and on exocytosis reveals that NTD and CTD are responsible for vesicle docking and fusion , respectively , whereas MD regulates SNARE assembly and fusion . Munc18-1 initiates SNARE assembly and structures t-SNARE C-terminus independent of syntaxin N-terminal regulatory domain ( NRD ) and stabilizes the half-zippered SNARE complex dependent upon the NRD . Our observations demonstrate distinct functions of SNARE domains whose assembly is intimately chaperoned by Munc18-1 .  SNAREs are evolutionarily conserved molecular machines that drive fusion of transport vesicles with their target membranes , thereby transferring materials and information between different cells or cellular compartments ( Sudhof and Rothman , 2009; Wickner and Schekman , 2008; Jahn and Fasshauer , 2012 ) . In the cell , SNARE-mediated membrane fusion requires cognate cytoplasmic Sec1p/Munc18 ( SM ) proteins ( Verhage et al . , 2000 ) . Mutations in SNARE and SM proteins have been associated with many important human diseases ( Sudhof , 2014; Shen et al . , 2014; Saitsu et al . , 2008; Shen et al . , 2015 ) . Fusion of synaptic vesicles with the pre-synaptic plasma membrane mediates neurotransmitter release at neuronal and neuromuscular junctions ( Sudhof and Rothman , 2009 ) . The fusion requires the vesicle-anchored v-SNARE VAMP2 ( also called synaptobrevin ) , the plasma-membrane-associated t-SNAREs syntaxin-1 and SNAP-25 ( Figure 1A ) , and the SM-protein Munc18-1 ( Sollner et al . , 1993; Verhage et al . , 2000; Sudhof , 2014; Rothman , 2014 ) . Extensive evidence suggests that the t- and v-SNAREs first form a partial trans-SNARE complex bridging the two membranes with the assistance of many regulatory proteins , including Munc18-1 , synaptotagmin , complexin , and Munc13 , which docks the vesicle to the plasma membrane ( Xu et al . , 1999; Melia et al . , 2002; Gao et al . , 2012; Sudhof , 2014; Rothman , 2014 ) . Upon the arrival of an action potential and resultant Ca2+ influx , the trans-SNARE complex rapidly zippers to complete its assembly and membrane fusion . However , an alternative model suggests that SNARE assembly only starts after Ca2+ triggering and completes in one step without any intermediates ( Jahn and Fasshauer , 2012 ) . The fully assembled SNARE complex forms a stable parallel four-helix bundle ( Sutton et al . , 1998; Stein et al . , 2009 ) ( Figure 1B ) . The tight SNARE association is mediated by 15 layers of hydrophobic amino acids and a central ionic layer in the core of the bundle ( Fasshauer et al . , 1998 ) ( Figure 1A ) . Numerous studies have shown that layer mutations differentially impact synaptic exocytosis , brain functions , and human psychology ( Walter et al . , 2010; Mohrmann et al . , 2010; Shen et al . , 2014; Sudhof , 2014 ) . Thus , it is crucial to understand how SNARE assembly dictates stage-wise exocytosis and how SNARE mutations alter the energetics and kinetics of SNARE assembly to cause their observed phenotypes . 10 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 003Figure 1 . Four distinct stages of SNARE assembly . ( A ) Sequences and domain structures of SNARE motifs in VAMP2 , syntaxin 1A ( SX1 ) , and SNAP-25B ( SN1 and SN2 ) . The amino acids in different layers are highlighted in yellow , with the corresponding layer numbers and VAMP2 amino acid numbers labeled . The two amino acids in the red rectangle were mutated to cysteine and crosslinked by a disulfide bridge . The layer amino acids mutated in this study are highlighted in red . ( B ) Diagram of the experimental setup ( Gao et al . , 2012; Cecconi et al . , 2005 ) . Different functional domains of the SNARE complex are indicated , including the N-terminal domain ( NTD ) , the middle domain ( MD ) , the C-terminal domain ( CTD ) , the linker domain ( LD ) , as well as the N-terminal regulatory domain ( NRD ) in syntaxin . The positions of four bordering layers are indicated by their layer numbers . ( C ) Force-extension curves ( FECs ) of a single SNARE complex with or without ( -NRD ) the NRD obtained by pulling ( black ) and then relaxing ( gray ) the complex . The FECs of the two complexes generally overlap but were shifted along x-axis for clarity . The continuous regions of the FECs corresponding to different assembly states ( marked by red numbers , see D ) were fitted by the worm-like chain model ( red lines ) . The inset shows a close-up view of the region marked by two red dots . Throughout this work , the time-dependent extension and force were mean-filtered using a time window of 5 ms and plotted in the FECs shown , if not otherwise specified . ( D ) Six different SNARE assembly states . The states are numbered the same throughout the text ( in red ) . Black numbers indicate different layers . The disordered t-SNARE C-terminus ( Tc ) in all partially zippered and unzipped SNARE complexes is marked by a dashed rectangle in state 4 . The NRD minimally affects intrinsic SNARE assembly and is omitted in the SNARE structures depicted here . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . N-terminal amino acid sequences of rat VAMP 2 and syntaxin-1A showing their different crosslinking sites ( marked by red or green boxes ) in the SNARE complexes tested . The amino acids in these sites were substituted with cysteine for crosslinking . In construct I , truncated VAMP2 25-92 and syntaxin-1A ( 187-265 ) were crosslinked via the short spacer sequences shown , whereas in other constructs , full cytoplasmic VAMP2 ( a . a . 1-96 ) and syntaxin-1A ( a . a . 1-265 ) were used . Rat SNAP-25 molecules used in all these SNARE complexes had their intrinsic cysteine residues mutated to serine residues . The green box marks the crosslinking site in construct VI used in most of the studies in this work ( Figure 1B ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 005Figure 1—figure supplement 2 . Force-extension curves ( FECs ) of the SNARE complexes crosslinked at different sites shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . All SNARE complexes show similar fast and reversible transitions in the linker domain ( LD , red dashed ovals ) and in the C-terminal domain ( CTD , cyan solid ovals ) . Whereas constructs I and II exhibit NTD unfolding at high forces ( black arrows ) and SNARE reassembly at low forces ( red arrows ) , other constructs ( III , IV , and V ) generally do not crosslink well at the N-terminal sites , leading to tether rupture upon NTD dissociation . NTD , N-terminal domain . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 00510 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 006Figure 1—figure supplement 3 . FECs of the SNARE complex showing reversible and irreversible transitions and effects of crosslinking near the -6 layer . The comparison of FEC #1 and FEC #2 reveals that the LD and CTD transitions were not affected by the crosslinking . The SNARE transitions were completely reversible if the SNARE complex was relaxed before the t-SNARE complex was unfolded ( FEC #2 ) , as is indicated by overlapping FECs obtained by pulling ( green ) and then relaxing ( red ) the SNARE complex . However , after t-SNARE unfolding ( black arrow ) the same SNARE complex failed to reassemble when relaxed to a force down to 1 pN ( FEC #3 ) . CTD , C-terminal domain; FECs , force-extension curves; LD , linker domain . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 00610 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 007Figure 1—figure supplement 4 . FECs of a single SNARE complex obtained in the presence 15 µM SNAP-25 in the solution showed that SNAP-25 was required for SNARE assembly . A single SNARE complex was pulled to high force ( FEC in black ) to unfold the t-SNARE complex at ~18 pN ( rip indicated by the blue arrow ) and then relaxed to a low force ( FEC in cyan ) to observe SNARE re-assembly ( red arrow ) . FECs , force-extension curves . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 00710 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 008Figure 1—figure supplement 5 . Time-dependent extension ( top ) , instantaneous force ( middle ) , and trap separation ( bottom ) of the SNARE construct VI ( green ) or I ( black ) as the SNARE complex was being pulled by increasing the trap separation at a speed of 10 nm/s . The different SNARE folding states are marked by red dashed lines and their corresponding state numbers ( Figure 1D ) : 2 , the LD-unfolded state; 3 , the CTD-unfolded state; 4 , the MD-unfolded state; and 5 , the NTD-unfolded state . Traces shown here are mean-filtered to 1000 Hz . CTD , C-terminal domain; LD , linker domain; MD , middle domain; NTD , N-terminal domain . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09580 . 008 The molecular mechanism by which Munc18-1 regulates SNARE assembly , although essential for membrane fusion , has long been a matter of debate ( Rizo and Sudhof , 2012 ) . On one hand , Munc18-1 can significantly enhance the rate and specificity of SNARE-mediated membrane fusion under certain conditions ( Shen et al . , 2007; Rathore et al . , 2010; Yu et al . , 2015 ) . On the other hand , Munc18-1 tightly associates with syntaxin in a closed conformation that inhibits SNARE assembly ( Colbert et al . , 2013; Burkhardt et al . , 2008; Dulubova et al . , 1999 ) . Munc18-1 also binds with over micromolar affinities to the t-SNARE complex ( Zhang et al . , 2015 ) , VAMP2 ( Parisotto et al . , 2014; Xu et al . , 2010b ) , and the ternary SNARE complex ( Dulubova et al . , 2007; Shen et al . , 2007; Rathore et al . , 2010 ) . The exact functions of these associations in SNARE assembly and membrane fusion are not well understood ( Shen et al . , 2007; Burkhardt et al . , 2008; Zhou et al . , 2013 ) . SNAREs couple their exergonic folding to membrane fusion ( Sudhof and Rothman , 2009; Rothman , 2014 ) . Such a thermodynamic coupling mechanism predicts that any perturbation in SNARE assembly impacts membrane fusion . Significant progresses have been made to test the prediction in the past two decades ( Chen et al . , 1999; Walter et al . , 2010; Mohrmann et al . , 2010 ) . However , a quantitative test requires accurate and comprehensive measurements of both the energies and kinetics of SNARE assembly and the rates of membrane fusion for wild-type and various mutant SNARE complexes . Whereas SNARE-mediated membrane fusion has been widely examined in vitro and in vivo , the energetics and kinetics of SNARE assembly have not been well characterized using traditional experimental approaches ( Fasshauer et al . , 2002; Wiederhold and Fasshauer , 2009 ) . Consequently , a quantitative Munc18-1-dependent model linking the thermodynamics of SNARE assembly to membrane fusion is lacking . For example , although VAMP2 layer mutation F77A abolished exocytosis , isothermal titration calorimetry ( ITC ) measurements showed that the mutation barely changed SNARE folding energy ( Walter et al . , 2010 ) . To address this challenge , we have recently established a single-molecule assay for SNARE assembly based on high-resolution optical tweezers and characterized the folding intermediates , energies , and kinetics of four representative SNARE complexes ( Gao et al . , 2012; Zorman et al . , 2014 ) . We have found that all the SNARE complexes are similarly unzipped in two reversible steps and one irreversible step , corresponding to sequential disassembly of SNARE LD , CTD , and NTD at increasing forces . However , complete stage-wise assembly has not directly been observed , due to the slow NTD association . Here , we developed a new SNARE construct that allowed us to measure reversible SNARE assembly and disassembly in four distinct stages and to determine their folding energies and kinetics ( Figure 1B ) . We found that these different assembly stages are regulated by Munc18-1 and play distinct roles in membrane fusion . 
How can the integrin adhesome get self-assembled locally , rapidly , and correctly as diverse cell-matrix adhesion sites ? Here , we investigate this question by exploring the cytosolic state of integrin-adhesome components and their dynamic exchange between adhesion sites and cytosol . Using fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy ( FCCS ) and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching ( FRAP ) we found that the integrin adhesome is extensively pre-assembled already in the cytosol as multi-protein building blocks for adhesion sites . Stationary focal adhesions release symmetrically the same types of protein complexes that they recruit , thereby keeping the cytosolic pool of building blocks spatiotemporally uniform . We conclude a model in which multi-protein building blocks enable rapid and modular self-assembly of adhesion sites and symmetric exchange of these building blocks preserves their specifications and thus the assembly logic of the system .  The integrin adhesome contains more than hundred proteins with multiple binding sites for each other ( Zamir and Geiger , 2001; Zaidel-Bar et al . , 2007; Byron et al . , 2011; Kuo et al . , 2011; Schiller et al . , 2011; Geiger and Zaidel-Bar , 2012 ) . Upon local signals , components of the integrin adhesome get self-assembled along the plasma membrane to form nascent adhesion sites and to further mature them to focal complexes and focal adhesions ( Zamir and Geiger , 2001; Cukierman et al . , 2002; Gardel et al . , 2010; Zaidel-Bar and Geiger , 2010 ) . These adhesion sites assemble , disassemble , and change their molecular content by exchanging their components with the surrounding cytosol ( Wolfenson et al . , 2011; Lavelin et al . , 2013 ) . Likewise , stationary adhesion sites are dynamically maintained by a balanced rapid exchange of constituents with the cytosol ( Lele et al . , 2008; Wolfenson et al . , 2011; Lavelin et al . , 2013 ) . Considering the molecular diversity and complexity of cell-matrix adhesion sites ( Zamir et al . , 1999; Zamir and Geiger , 2001; Cukierman et al . , 2002; Zamir et al . , 2008 ) , a major question is how can the integrin adhesome form these structures rapidly , locally , and correctly . In order to approach this question it is essential to consider and examine not only the adhesion sites themselves but also the state of their components in the cytosolic pool . However , the study of this fundamental aspect was largely abandoned so far , due to tacitly conceiving the cytosolic pool as a passive supply of individual integrin adhesome proteins . In this work we challenged this view by systematic FCCS and FRAP measurements . Strikingly , we found that the integrin adhesome is actually extensively pre-assembled already in the cytosol , forming multi-protein building blocks that can facilitate rapid and modular assembly of adhesion sites . The physical associations between adhesion site components are spatially uniform around stationary focal adhesions , indicating that these sites exchange their building blocks with the cytosol without altering them ( i . e . , symmetrically ) . Together , our results lead to a concept in which self-assembly of adhesion sites involves recruitment of multi-protein modules and symmetric exchange preserves the specifications of these building blocks in the cytosolic pool , thereby facilitating correct self-assembly . 
Deep non-rapid eye movement sleep ( NREM ) and general anesthesia with propofol are prominent states of reduced arousal linked to the occurrence of synchronized oscillations in the electroencephalogram ( EEG ) . Although rapid eye movement ( REM ) sleep is also associated with diminished arousal levels , it is characterized by a desynchronized , ‘wake-like’ EEG . This observation implies that reduced arousal states are not necessarily only defined by synchronous oscillatory activity . Using intracranial and surface EEG recordings in four independent data sets , we demonstrate that the 1/f spectral slope of the electrophysiological power spectrum , which reflects the non-oscillatory , scale-free component of neural activity , delineates wakefulness from propofol anesthesia , NREM and REM sleep . Critically , the spectral slope discriminates wakefulness from REM sleep solely based on the neurophysiological brain state . Taken together , our findings describe a common electrophysiological marker that tracks states of reduced arousal , including different sleep stages as well as anesthesia in humans .  General anesthesia is a reversible , pharmaceutically induced state of unconsciousness , while sleep is internally generated and cycles between rapid ( REM ) and non-rapid eye movement sleep ( NREM; Brown et al . , 2010; Franks and Zecharia , 2011 ) . Both sleep stages and anesthesia are characterized by a behaviorally similar state of reduced physical arousal ( Brown et al . , 2010; Franks and Zecharia , 2011; Murphy et al . , 2011 ) . Definitions of arousal vary and include e . g . autonomic , behavioral or mental arousal . For this study , we followed an updated version of the framework by Laureys et al . that defined consciousness on two axes – content ( awareness ) and level ( arousal; Boly et al . , 2013; Laureys , 2005 ) . While the conscious content is low in NREM sleep and propofol anesthesia , it is high in wakefulness and dreaming states like REM . The arousal level is low during anesthesia and in all sleep states including REM . Both NREM sleep stage 3 ( also called slow-wave sleep ) and general anesthesia with propofol exhibit similar electrophysiological features , such as an increase in low frequency activity and the occurrence of prominent slow oscillations ( <1 . 25 Hz; Brown et al . , 2010; Franks and Zecharia , 2011; Murphy et al . , 2011; Prerau et al . , 2017; Purdon et al . , 2013 ) . Moreover , propofol anesthesia has been linked to the emergence of a strong frontal alpha oscillation ( 8–12 Hz; Purdon et al . , 2013 ) whereas spindles ( 12–16 Hz ) typically appear in NREM sleep stage 2 ( Prerau et al . , 2017 ) . In contrast , REM sleep is characterized by a desynchronized , active pattern in the electroencephalogram ( EEG ) , which resembles wakefulness ( Brown et al . , 2010; Prerau et al . , 2017 ) . The additional defining features of REM sleep are therefore peripheral markers including muscle atonia as detected by electromyography ( EMG ) combined with rapid eye movements in the electrooculogram ( EOG; Prerau et al . , 2017 ) . To date , it has been challenging to differentiate REM sleep from wakefulness in humans solely from the electrophysiological brain state ( Pal et al . , 2016 ) . Recently , several lines of inquiry highlighted the importance of non-oscillatory , scale-free neural activity for brain physiology and behavior ( Miller et al . , 2009a; Gao et al . , 2017; Voytek et al . , 2015; Voytek and Knight , 2015; Miller et al . , 2009b; He et al . , 2010 ) . The electrophysiological power spectrum is characterized by a 1/f signal drop-off , i . e . higher frequency activity exhibits reduced power as compared to low frequency activity . This scaling law between power and frequency can be estimated from the exponential decay of the power spectrum ( He et al . , 2010 ) and has previously been used to assess a variety of cognitive and EEG phenomena ( Colombo et al . , 2019; Lina et al . , 2019; Miskovic et al . , 2019; Pereda et al . , 1998; Pritchard , 1992; Shen et al . , 2003; Susmáková and Krakovská , 2008 ) . Notably , this decay function mainly captures non-oscillatory brain activity , which is not characterized by a defining temporal scale , such as band-limited oscillations ( He et al . , 2010 ) . Therefore , analyses of scale-free 1/f dynamics might prove especially helpful when analyzing brain states that are not characterized by prominent oscillations such as REM sleep in humans . We hypothesized that markers of 1/f activity , such as the spectral slope of the power spectrum , may provide an electrophysiological signature that distinguishes ‘paradoxical’ REM sleep ( Siegel , 2011 ) from wakefulness . Importantly , 1/f dynamics can also be observed in a variety of other signals . For instance , long-range temporal correlations of neuronal oscillations ( Linkenkaer-Hansen et al . , 2001 ) or the size and duration of neuronal avalanches ( Beggs and Plenz , 2003; Palva et al . , 2013 ) also follow a power law but these scale-free behaviors likely have a different neurophysiological basis than the 1/f drop-off of the power spectrum ( He et al . , 2010 ) . Recent findings suggested that 1/f dynamics differentiate wakefulness from general anesthesia ( Colombo et al . , 2019; Gao , 2016 ) . For instance , using intracranial recordings in macaque monkeys , it had been shown that the spectral slope between 30 and 50 Hz reliably tracked changes in arousal level under propofol anesthesia from induction to emergence ( Gao et al . , 2017 ) . Moreover , it has been reported that that the spectral slope between 1 and 40 Hz in human scalp EEG recordings discriminated states with conscious content , namely wakefulness and ketamine anesthesia , from states where no conscious report was possible , i . e . Xenon and propofol anesthesia ( Colombo et al . , 2019 ) . Collectively , these studies implied that propofol anesthesia was accompanied by a steeper decay of the power spectrum ( Colombo et al . , 2019; Gao et al . , 2017 ) . With regard to sleep physiology , it had been observed that the spectral exponent of human scalp EEG becomes more negative during NREM sleep , when estimated e . g . in the 1 to 5 Hz ( Shen et al . , 2003 ) , 3 to 30 Hz ( Pereda et al . , 1998 ) or 0 . 5 to 35 Hz frequency range ( Miskovic et al . , 2019 ) . A similar pattern was observed in intracranial recordings with subdural grid electrodes in humans between 10 and 100 Hz ( one subject; Freeman and Zhai , 2009 ) or 1 and 100 Hz ( five subjects; He et al . , 2010 ) . Note that the 1/f background activity was estimated from frequency bands that were potentially influenced by simultaneously occurring low frequency oscillation i . e . delta ( <4 Hz ) or slow waves ( <1 . 25 Hz ) that might affect the degree of spectral tilt . General anesthetics like propofol , etomidate and barbiturates act on GABAergic receptors to enhance inhibition ( Brown et al . , 2011 ) . Recently , computational simulations indicated that the spectral slope might provide a surrogate marker for the excitation to inhibition ( E/I ) balance with more negative spectral slopes ( esp . in the 30 to 50 Hz range ) indexing enhanced inhibition ( Gao et al . , 2017 ) . This model was validated using intracranial recordings in macaques and rodents: A shift in E/I-balance towards inhibition by administrating propofol resulted in a steeper slope of the power spectrum . Likewise , the spectral slope in the rodent hippocampus varied across the depth of hippocampus , directly reflecting the ratio of excitatory to inhibitory cells in the underlying neuronal population . Moreover , a modulation of spectral slope was also observed as a function of the hippocampal theta cycle , likely reflecting rapid shifts in E/I-balance ( Gao et al . , 2017 ) . A recent study that employed two-photon calcium imaging in mice provided additional insight into putative changes in E/I-balance during the sleep cycle . Cortical activity in mice was reduced during NREM sleep compared to wakefulness and , notably , even further reduced during REM sleep ( Niethard et al . , 2016 ) . Crucially , the authors observed a selective increase in inhibitory interneuron activity ( parvalbumin-positive interneurons; Niethard et al . , 2016 ) during REM but not NREM sleep revealing an overall shift towards inhibition during REM sleep . In the present study , we assessed if 1/f spectral dynamics , in particular in the 30 to 50 Hz range , which is devoid of prominent low-frequency oscillatory activity ( Gao et al . , 2017 ) , could track arousal states in humans both under anesthesia with propofol and during sleep in intracranial and scalp EEG recordings . Specifically , we hypothesized that the spectral slope should become more negative ( i . e . the power spectrum steeper ) in sleep and under anesthesia compared to wakefulness . Importantly , we also predicted that the spectral slope could discriminate wakefulness from NREM as well as REM sleep . Based on recent reports linking E/I-balance and electrophysiology ( Gao et al . , 2017; Niethard et al . , 2016 ) , we reasoned that the spectral slope , as a putative marker of E/I-balance , should facilitate the detection of REM sleep directly from the current brain state , without complementary information from additional EMG or EOG recordings . While previous studies that included lower frequency power in their slope estimates , found the slope of REM to be close to wakefulness ( He et al . , 2010 ) , we specifically investigated if the aperiodic background activity in the 30 to 50 Hz range could reliably discriminate REM sleep from wakefulness and NREM sleep . 
Dynamic tubular extensions from chloroplasts called stromules have recently been shown to connect with nuclei and function during innate immunity . We demonstrate that stromules extend along microtubules ( MTs ) and MT organization directly affects stromule dynamics since stabilization of MTs chemically or genetically increases stromule numbers and length . Although actin filaments ( AFs ) are not required for stromule extension , they provide anchor points for stromules . Interestingly , there is a strong correlation between the direction of stromules from chloroplasts and the direction of chloroplast movement . Stromule-directed chloroplast movement was observed in steady-state conditions without immune induction , suggesting it is a general function of stromules in epidermal cells . Our results show that MTs and AFs may facilitate perinuclear clustering of chloroplasts during an innate immune response . We propose a model in which stromules extend along MTs and connect to AF anchor points surrounding nuclei , facilitating stromule-directed movement of chloroplasts to nuclei during innate immunity .  Stroma-filled tubular structures called stromules emanate from chloroplasts and have been observed in several genera in the plant kingdom , although they are most common in non-green plastids ( Gray et al . , 2001; Hanson and Sattarzadeh , 2008; Köhler and Hanson , 2000; Kumar et al . , 2014; Natesan et al . , 2005 ) . Stromules are developmentally regulated and induced in response to biotic and abiotic stress , symbiotic association , and changes in plastid number and size ( Brunkard et al . , 2015; Caplan et al . , 2015; Caplan et al . , 2008; Erickson et al . , 2014; Gray et al . , 2012; Kumar et al . , 2014; Schattat and Klösgen , 2011; Waters et al . , 2004 ) . The dynamic extension of stromules increases the surface area of chloroplasts , presumably facilitating transport of signals or macromolecules to the nucleus , cytosol , plasma membrane or other organelles ( Gunning , 2005 , 2004a; Kwok and Hanson , 2004c ) . We have recently shown that stromules are induced and function during innate immunity ( Caplan et al . , 2015 ) . The induced stromules make connections with the nuclei to facilitate transport of chloroplast-localized defense protein NRIP1 ( N receptor interacting protein 1 ) and the pro-defense molecule , hydrogen peroxide ( H2O2 ) , from chloroplasts into nuclei during an immune response ( Caplan et al . , 2015 ) . Stromules may also facilitate certain number of chloroplasts to maintain contact with the moving nuclei ( Erickson et al . , 2017a ) . However , the mechanism ( s ) that facilitates chloroplast stromules connections to nuclei and eventual perinuclear clustering of chloroplasts is unknown . Stromule length is variable as they extend , retract and branch , changing their shape and position ( Gray et al . , 2001; Gunning , 2005; Kwok and Hanson , 2004c; Waters et al . , 2004 ) . However , mechanisms that regulate the dynamic nature of stromule morphology and motility are poorly understood . Studies using inhibitors in non-green tissue have implicated cytoskeleton elements such as actin microfilaments ( AFs ) and microtubules ( MTs ) in regulating stromule frequency , length and motility ( Gunning , 2005; Kwok and Hanson , 2003; Kwok and Hanson , 2004a ) . Treatment with AF inhibitors , Cytochalasin D ( CTD ) and Latrunculin B , resulted in the reduction of stromule frequency in tobacco hypocotyls ( Kwok and Hanson , 2003 ) . Stromules have been observed to extend parallel to AFs and the tips of stromules make contact with AFs in Arabidopsis hypocotyl epidermal cells ( Kwok and Hanson , 2004a ) . Treatment with myosin ATPase inhibitor 2 , 3 butanedione 2-monoxime ( BDM ) affects stromule movement and length; furthermore , Myosin XI family motor proteins have been implicated in stromule movement and anchoring to the cytoskeleton in Nicotiana ( Natesan et al . , 2009; Sattarzadeh et al . , 2009 ) . These findings suggest that stromules move along AFs using myosin motors; however , direct evidence for movement along AFs is lacking . Treatment with MT inhibitor amiprophosmethyl ( APM ) reduced stromules , and co-treatment with AF and MT inhibitors decreased stromule frequency and length ( Kwok and Hanson , 2003 ) . In contrast , ‘chloroplast protrusions’ from mesophyll chloroplasts of the arctic plant Oxyria digyna remained unaffected by the MT inhibitor Oryzalin or the AF inhibitor LatB ( Holzinger et al . , 2007b ) . Therefore , the precise role of AFs and MTs during stromule dynamics in green tissue chloroplasts is not well understood . Here , we analyzed the mechanism of stromule extension and movement in chloroplasts of green leaf tissue and perinuclear chloroplast clustering during innate immunity . Our results show that MTs are required for stromule extension and movement . MT depolymerization led to stromule retraction , and MT stabilization increased stromule frequency . Silencing the gene for γ-tubulin complex protein 4 ( GCP4 ) caused enhanced bundling and disrupted dynamics of MTs , which resulted in longer stromules , but slower extension and retraction . Although stromule extension does not require AFs , they function as anchor points that stabilize stromules and anchor the body of chloroplasts . AFs play an important role in type of chloroplast movement that appears to be directed by stromules . This new type of stromule-directed movement is completely disrupted by AF inhibitors . However , stromule-directed chloroplast movement was still observed when AFs were partially disrupted , suggesting that chloroplast anchoring might restrict stromule directed movement . We hypothesize that a biological function of stromules is to direct the movement of chloroplasts . During an innate immune response , we propose a model where stromules extend along MTs towards nuclei and attach to the nuclei at actin anchor points; and , these perinuclear stromule attachments guide chloroplasts to the nucleus . 
Do the amino acid sequence identities of residues that make contact across protein interfaces covary during evolution ? If so , such covariance could be used to predict contacts across interfaces and assemble models of biological complexes . We find that residue pairs identified using a pseudo-likelihood-based method to covary across protein–protein interfaces in the 50S ribosomal unit and 28 additional bacterial protein complexes with known structure are almost always in contact in the complex , provided that the number of aligned sequences is greater than the average length of the two proteins . We use this method to make subunit contact predictions for an additional 36 protein complexes with unknown structures , and present models based on these predictions for the tripartite ATP-independent periplasmic ( TRAP ) transporter , the tripartite efflux system , the pyruvate formate lyase-activating enzyme complex , and the methionine ABC transporter .  Recent work has demonstrated the accuracy of coevolution-based contact prediction for monomeric proteins using a global statistical model ( Thomas et al . , 2008 ) to distinguish between direct and indirect couplings ( Marks et al . , 2011; Morcos et al . , 2011; Hopf et al . , 2012; Nugent and Jones , 2012; Jones et al . , 2012; Lapedes et al . , 2012; Marks et al . , 2012; Sułkowska et al . , 2012; Kamisetty et al . , 2013 ) . While early approaches relied on estimating an inverse covariance matrix ( Marks et al . , 2011; Morcos et al . , 2011; Jones et al . , 2012 ) , more recent studies have shown that a pseudo-likelihood-based approach ( Balakrishnan et al . , 2011 ) results in more accurate predictions ( Ekeberg et al . , 2013; Kamisetty et al . , 2013 ) for a range of alignment sizes and protein lengths . In contrast to this rich body of work for monomeric proteins , relatively little is known about the utility of such statistical models in predicting protein–protein interactions . The more general problem of predicting if two proteins interact with each other has been studied extensively using a wide variety of approaches ( de Juan et al . , 2013; Hosur et al . , 2012; Zhang et al . , 2012; Shoemaker and Panchenko , 2007 , Valencia and Pazos , 2002 , Ochoa and Pazos , 2010 ) . Amino acid residue coevolution has been used to predict residue–residue interactions across interfaces with local statistical models ( Pazos et al . , 1997; Halperin et al . , 2006 ) . As noted above , the accuracy of these models is reduced by the confounding of direct and indirect correlations ( Lapedes et al . , 1999; Weigt et al . , 2009 ) ; the application of global statistical models to coevolution-based contact prediction across interfaces has been limited to the case of the histidine-kinase/response-regulator two component system ( Burger and van Nimwegen , 2008; Weigt et al . , 2009; Schug et al . , 2009; Dago et al . , 2012 ) . In this study , we examine residue–residue covariation across protein–protein interfaces using a pseudo-likelihood-based statistical method . In a large set of complexes of known structure , we find that covarying pairs of positions are almost always in contact in the three-dimensional structure , provided there are sufficient aligned sequences . We find further that significant residue–residue covariance occurs frequently between physically interacting protein pairs but very rarely between non-interacting pairs , and hence should be useful for predicting whether two proteins interact . We use the pseudo-likelihood method to predict contacts across protein-interfaces for 36 evolutionarily conserved complexes of unknown structure and present structure models for four of the complexes particularly well constrained by these data . 
Interpreting visual scenes typically requires us to accumulate information from multiple locations in a scene . Using a novel gaze-contingent paradigm in a visual categorization task , we show that participants' scan paths follow an active sensing strategy that incorporates information already acquired about the scene and knowledge of the statistical structure of patterns . Intriguingly , categorization performance was markedly improved when locations were revealed to participants by an optimal Bayesian active sensor algorithm . By using a combination of a Bayesian ideal observer and the active sensor algorithm , we estimate that a major portion of this apparent suboptimality of fixation locations arises from prior biases , perceptual noise and inaccuracies in eye movements , and the central process of selecting fixation locations is around 70% efficient in our task . Our results suggest that participants select eye movements with the goal of maximizing information about abstract categories that require the integration of information from multiple locations .  Several lines of evidence suggest that humans and other animals direct their sensors ( e . g . their eyes , whiskers , or hands ) so as to extract task-relevant information efficiently ( Yarbus , 1967; Kleinfeld et al . , 2006; Lederman and Klatzky , 1987 ) . Indeed , in vision , the pattern of eye movements used to scan a scene depends on the type of information sought ( Hayhoe and Ballard , 2005; Rothkopf et al . , 2007 ) , and has been implied to follow from an active strategy ( Najemnik and Geisler , 2005; Renninger et al . , 2007; Navalpakkam et al . , 2010; Nelson and Cottrell , 2007; Toscani et al . , 2013; Chukoskie et al . , 2013 ) in which each saccade depends on the information gathered about the current visual scene and prior knowledge about scene statistics . However , until now , studies of such active sensing have either been limited to search tasks or to qualitative descriptions of the active sensing process . In particular , no studies have shown whether the information acquired by each individual fixation is being optimized . Rather , the fixation patterns have either been described without a tight link to optimality ( Ballard et al . , 1995; Epelboim and Suppes , 2001 ) or compared to an optimal strategy only through summary statistics such as the total number of eye movements and the distribution of saccade vectors ( Najemnik and Geisler , 2005; 2008 ) that could have arisen through a heuristic . Therefore , these studies leave open the question as to what extent eye movements truly follow an active optimal strategy . In order to study eye movements in a more principled quantitative manner , we estimated the efficiency of eye movements in a high-level task on a fixation-by-fixation basis . Here , we focus on a pattern categorization task that is fundamentally different from visual search , in which often there is a single location in the scene that has all the necessary information ( the target ) , and eye movements are well described by the simple mechanism of inhibition of return ( Klein , 2000 ) . In contrast , in many other tasks , such as constructing the meaning of a sentence of written text , or judging from a picture how long a visitor has been away from a family ( Yarbus , 1967 ) , no single visual location has the necessary information in it and thus such tasks require more complex eye movement patterns . While some basic-level categorization tasks can be solved in a single fixation ( Thorpe et al . , 1996; Li et al . , 2002 ) , many situations require multiple fixations to extract several details at different locations to make a decision . Therefore , when people have to extract abstract information ( eg . , how long the visitor has been away ) they need to integrate a series of detailed observations ( such as facial expression , postures and gestures of the people ) across the scene , relying heavily on foveal vision information with peripheral vision playing a more minor role ( Levi , 2008 ) . We illustrate the key features of active sensing in visual categorization by a situation that requires the categorization of an animal based on its fur that is partially obscured by foliage ( Figure 1 ) . As each individual patch of fur can be consistent with different animals , such as a zebra or a cheetah , and the foliage prevents the usage of gist information ( Oliva and Torralba , 2006 ) , multiple locations have to be fixated individually , and the information accumulated across these locations , until a decision can be made with high confidence . For maximal efficiency , this requires a closed loop interaction between perception , which integrates information from the locations already fixated with prior knowledge about the prevalence of different animals and their fur patterns , and thus maintains beliefs about which animal might be present in the image , and the planning of eye movement , which should direct the next fixation at a location which has potentially the most information relevant for the categorization ( Figure 1 ) . Inspired by this example , and to allow a mathematically tractable quantification of the information at any fixation location , we designed an experiment with visual patterns that were statistically well-controlled and relatively simple , while ensuring that foveal vision would dominate by using a gaze-contingent categorization task in which we tracked the eye and successively revealed small apertures of the image at each fixation location . In contrast to previous studies ( Najemnik and Geisler , 2005; Renninger et al . , 2007; Peterson and Eckstein , 2012; Morvan and Maloney , 2012 ) , our task required multiple locations to be visited to extract information about abstract pattern categories . 10 . 7554/eLife . 12215 . 003Figure 1 . Active sensing involves an interplay between perception and action . When trying to categorize whether a fur hidden behind foliage ( left ) belongs to a zebra or a cheetah , evidence from multiple fixations ( blue , the visible patches of the fur , and their location in the image ) needs to be integrated to generate beliefs about fur category ( right , here represented probabilistically , as the posterior probability of the particular animal given the evidence ) . Given current beliefs , different potential locations in the scene will be expected to have different amounts of informativeness with regard to further distinguishing between the categories , and optimal sensing involves choosing the maximally informative location ( red ) . In the example shown , after the first two fixations ( blue ) it is ambiguous whether the fur belongs to a zebra or a cheetah , but active sensing chooses a collinearly located revealing position ( red ) which should be informative and indeed reveals a zebra with high certainty . Note that this is just an illustrative example . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 12215 . 003 
Nucleocytoplasmic transport is tightly regulated by the nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) . Among the thousands of molecules that cross the NPC , even very large ( >15 nm ) cargoes such as pathogens , mRNAs and pre-ribosomes can pass the NPC intact . For these cargoes , there is little quantitative understanding of the requirements for their nuclear import , especially the role of multivalent binding to transport receptors via nuclear localisation sequences ( NLSs ) and the effect of size on import efficiency . Here , we assayed nuclear import kinetics of 30 large cargo models based on four capsid-like particles in the size range of 17–36 nm , with tuneable numbers of up to 240 NLSs . We show that the requirements for nuclear transport can be recapitulated by a simple two-parameter biophysical model that correlates the import flux with the energetics of large cargo transport through the NPC . Together , our results reveal key molecular determinants of large cargo import in cells .  Cargo transport across the nuclear envelope is a hallmark of eukaryotic cells and is central to cellular viability ( Knockenhauer and Schwartz , 2016; Jamali et al . , 2011; Fahrenkrog and Aebi , 2003 ) . In a typical HeLa cell , more than 2000 nuclear pore complexes ( NPCs ) span the nuclear envelope ( Ribbeck and Görlich , 2001; Maul et al . , 1972 ) . With ≈120 MDa in metazoans ( Reichelt et al . , 1990 ) and roughly half that weight in yeast ( Rout and Blobel , 1993; Yang et al . , 1998 ) , the NPC is among the largest macromolecular complexes found inside the cell . NPCs are the gatekeepers of nucleocytoplasmic transport and restrict access of cargoes larger than the typically reported threshold of 40 kDa ( Paine et al . , 1975; Keminer and Peters , 1999; Mohr et al . , 2009 ) , albeit recent work points to a rather ‘soft’ barrier model and a gradual decrease of passive transport rates with size ( Timney et al . , 2016 ) . However , cargoes that present a nuclear localisation sequence ( NLS ) and bind nuclear transport receptors ( NTRs ) can rapidly enter into the nucleus . Several studies have characterized the NTR-mediated transport process , typically focusing on cargoes with one to five NLSs , and their nuclear import kinetics have been shown to follow a mono-exponential behaviour ( Ribbeck and Görlich , 2001; Kopito and Elbaum , 2007; Timney et al . , 2006 ) . NPCs are remarkable in the diversity of sizes of cargoes they can transport , ranging from import of nuclear proteins ( including histones and transcription factors ) , to viral import and nuclear export of pre-ribosomal subunits and mRNA complexes ( Panté and Kann , 2002; Grünwald and Singer , 2010; Grünwald et al . , 2011; Babcock et al . , 2004; Mor et al . , 2010; Au and Panté , 2012 ) . How very large cargoes ( >15 nm ) can be efficiently transported is still an enigma , especially considering the dimensions and structure of the transport conduit itself . The NPC is formed by multiple copies of about 30 proteins , two thirds of which are folded proteins that assemble the NPC scaffold . The recent improvements in electron tomography ( ET ) , paired with X-ray crystallography , have greatly expanded our knowledge on the organisation of these folded components of the NPC ( von Appen et al . , 2015; Szymborska et al . , 2013; Lin et al . , 2016; Kosinski et al . , 2016 ) . This pore-like scaffold is filled with multiple copies of ≈10 different intrinsically disordered proteins , known as FG nucleoporins ( FG Nups ) , which form the NPC permeability barrier . FG repeats have been estimated to be at concentrations in the mM range inside the NPC ( Aramburu and Lemke , 2017; Frey and Görlich , 2007 ) . Our structural knowledge about the actual transport conduit compared to the scaffold is much lower , as its dynamic nature leads to a loss of electron density in the averaging process inherent to ET , leaving a ≈40 nm wide ‘hole’ inside the structural map of the NPC tomogram . As the transport of many large cargoes is believed not to irreversibly alter the structure of the NPC , substantial amounts of FG Nups mass must be displaced in order to facilitate such transport events . In addition to dynamics in the permeability barrier , dilation mechanisms in the scaffold structure itself have also been suggested ( Beck and Hurt , 2017 ) . Despite its high biological relevance , nuclear transport of large cargoes is still poorly understood . In order to address this gap , we designed a set of large model cargoes based on capsid-derived structures . In contrast to using fully physiological large cargoes , such as complete viruses , this strategy enabled us to titrate key features such as size , number of binding sites and surface properties . This reductionist approach opened the possibility to experimentally measure a rigorous set of biophysical parameters . We used a combination of spectroscopy and semi-automated microscopy assays to investigate the kinetics of nuclear import of cargoes ranging from 17 to 36 nm in diameter and with a number of NLSs between 0 and 240 in permeabilised cells . Our results uncovered the quantitative dependence of cargo size and NLS number in an understudied size range . The results are rationalized using a minimal physical model of nuclear transport that takes into account the energy gain from NTR binding to FG motifs , and the free energy cost needed for the insertion of a large particle into a densely filled channel . 
The co-stimulatory molecule CD28 is essential for activation of helper T cells . Despite this critical role , it is not known whether CD28 has functions in maintaining T cell responses following activation . To determine the role for CD28 after T cell priming , we generated a strain of mice where CD28 is removed from CD4+ T cells after priming . We show that continued CD28 expression is important for effector CD4+ T cells following infection; maintained CD28 is required for the expansion of T helper type 1 cells , and for the differentiation and maintenance of T follicular helper cells during viral infection . Persistent CD28 is also required for clearance of the bacterium Citrobacter rodentium from the gastrointestinal tract . Together , this study demonstrates that CD28 persistence is required for helper T cell polarization in response to infection , describing a novel function for CD28 that is distinct from its role in T cell priming .  T cell activation requires two signals: peptide in the context of the major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) interacting with the T cell receptor ( TCR ) , and a co-stimulatory signal ( Lafferty and Cunningham , 1975 ) . The binding of CD28 to its ligands , CD80/CD86 , initiates a transcriptional program that enables effective T cell proliferation and differentiation . In the absence of CD28 signaling T cells fail to respond , and become anergic ( Diehn et al . , 2002; Riley et al . , 2002 ) . CD28 signaling is essential for multiple facets of CD4+ T cell activation ( Harding et al . , 1992 ) , including proliferation , survival ( Boise et al . , 1995 ) , glucose metabolism ( Frauwirth et al . , 2002 ) , and migration ( Marelli-Berg et al . , 2007 ) . Consequently , CD28-deficient mice have reduced expansion of effector CD4+ T cells and do not form T helper type 1 ( Th1 ) and T follicular helper ( Tfh ) cells after infection or immunization . Tfh cells provide growth and differentiation signals to germinal center B cells , enabling them to exit the germinal center as long-lived plasma cells or memory B cells ( Crotty , 2011 ) . Th1 cells are formed during a Type 1 immune response and facilitate the clearance of intracellular pathogens ( Zhu and Paul , 2010 ) . Impaired formation of Tfh and Th1 cells results in impaired cellular and humoral immunity to foreign antigens in CD28-deficient mice ( Shahinian et al . , 1993; Green et al . , 1994; Ferguson et al . , 1996; King et al . , 1996; Mittrucker et al . , 1996; Walunas et al . , 1996; Walker et al . , 1999; Bertram et al . , 2002 ) . From this extensive body of literature , it is clear that CD28 signaling plays an essential role in CD4+ T cell priming and the formation of effector T cell subsets , but this has made it difficult to determine whether CD28 signaling also contributes to the ongoing immune response , as downstream phenotypes may be due to defective initial activation of CD28-deficient T cells . The expression of CD28 and its ligands increases progressively after priming , raising the possibility that CD28 signaling is utilized during the effector phase of the immune response . Despite the central role of CD28 signaling in T cell biology , a role for sustained CD28 expression in CD4+ T cell subset differentiation and maintenance has not been described . This is likely to be because the role for CD28 after T cell priming is difficult to determine experimentally . CD28-deficient helper T cells do not become activated , and thus cannot be used to evaluate the role for CD28 after T cell priming . Moreover , CD28 has two ligands , CD80 and CD86 , which it shares with the inhibitory receptor cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 ( CTLA-4 ) . Consequently , manipulating CD80/86 cannot be used to draw conclusions on the role of CD28 alone , as CTLA-4 ligation will also be affected . The role for CD28 on activated T cells is particularly pertinent as CD28 expression is lost on a proportion of activated T cells with age , in HIV infection , and in the number of immune disorders in primates ( but not rodents ) ( Weng et al . , 2009; Aberg , 2012; Broux et al . , 2012 ) , and the functional consequence of this loss of CD28 is unknown . In addition , the CD28 pathway is an area of considerable research interest as it can be manipulated by a number of therapeutics: blocking this pathway is being used to treat autoimmune and inflammatory disease and to prevent transplant rejection ( Salomon and Bluestone , 2001 ) . In contrast , engaging this pathway can expand anti-tumor T cells and regulatory T cells ( Carreno et al . , 2005 ) . Because of the considerable therapeutic potential of this pathway , understanding its biology is of direct clinical relevance . Studies have suggested that CD28 may play a role following T cell priming , for example blocking CD28 ligands during an ongoing immune response can impair the germinal center response ( Han et al . , 1995 ) , prolong graft survival , and suppress autoimmunity ( Salomon and Bluestone , 2001 ) . These studies support the possibility for a role for CD28 in an ongoing immune response . However , attributing these phenotypes to a role for continued CD28 expression in established immune responses is not possible because CD28 signaling is blocked on all cells , and not only on previously activated T cells . To determine whether there is a role for CD28 signaling after T cell activation , we generated a strain of Cd28flox/flox Ox40cre/+ mice where CD28 expression is lost after T cell priming . We show that the numbers of both Tfh and Th1 cells are reduced in Cd28flox/flox Ox40cre/+ mice after influenza A virus infection , although , surprisingly , the requirement for CD28 on each cell type is distinct . Tfh differentiation requires CD28 ligation during interactions of primed T cells with B cells and fully differentiated Tfh cells require CD28 expression for their survival . By contrast , Th1 cells do not require CD28 for their maintenance , but do for their expansion following T cell activation . Furthermore , Cd28flox/flox Ox40cre/+ mice are unable to clear Citrobacter rodentium from their gastrointestinal tract following oral infection . This demonstrates that CD28 expression is required after T cell priming for intact effector CD4+ T cell responses during infection . 
Helical cell shape is necessary for efficient stomach colonization by Helicobacter pylori , but the molecular mechanisms for generating helical shape remain unclear . The helical centerline pitch and radius of wild-type H . pylori cells dictate surface curvatures of considerably higher positive and negative Gaussian curvatures than those present in straight- or curved-rod H . pylori . Quantitative 3D microscopy analysis of short pulses with either N-acetylmuramic acid or D-alanine metabolic probes showed that cell wall growth is enhanced at both sidewall curvature extremes . Immunofluorescence revealed MreB is most abundant at negative Gaussian curvature , while the bactofilin CcmA is most abundant at positive Gaussian curvature . Strains expressing CcmA variants with altered polymerization properties lose helical shape and associated positive Gaussian curvatures . We thus propose a model where CcmA and MreB promote PG synthesis at positive and negative Gaussian curvatures , respectively , and that this patterning is one mechanism necessary for maintaining helical shape .  Helicobacter pylori is a helical Gram-negative bacterium that colonizes the human stomach and can cause stomach ulcers and gastric cancers ( Correa , 1988 ) . Helical cell shape is necessary for efficient stomach colonization ( Bonis et al . , 2010; Sycuro et al . , 2012; Sycuro et al . , 2010 ) , underscoring its importance . H . pylori is a main model organism for studying helical cell shape , in part because it is a genetically tractable organism with a compact genome that minimizes redundancy ( Tomb et al . , 1997 ) . Key non-redundant , non-essential contributors to cell shape have been identified , but the question of how they enable H . pylori to be helical remains largely unsolved . As is the case for most bacteria ( Höltje , 1998 ) , the structure of the H . pylori peptidoglycan ( PG ) cell wall ( sacculus ) is ultimately responsible for the shape of the cell; purified cell walls maintain helical shape ( Sycuro et al . , 2010 ) . PG is a polymer of alternating N-acetylglucosamine ( GlcNAc ) and N-acetylmuramic acid ( MurNAc ) with an attached peptide stem that can be crosslinked to a peptide stem of an adjacent PG strand . Crosslinked PG strands form the cell wall , a large mesh-like macromolecule that surrounds the cell and counteracts the cell’s turgor pressure ( Höltje , 1998; Typas et al . , 2012 ) . The PG monomer is synthesized in the cytoplasm and subsequently flipped across the inner membrane and incorporated into the existing PG by the glycosyltransferase activities of penicillin binding proteins ( PBPs ) and shape , elongation , division , and sporulation ( SEDS ) proteins , and the transpeptidation activities of PBPs ( Meeske et al . , 2016; Sauvage et al . , 2008 ) . Helical cell shape maintenance in H . pylori requires a suite of both PG-modifying enzymes ( Csd1 , Csd3/HdpA , Csd4 , and Csd6 ) to remodel the cell wall and non-enzymatic proteins ( Csd2 , Csd5 , CcmA , and Csd7 ) that may act as scaffolds or play other structural roles ( Bonis et al . , 2010; Sycuro et al . , 2013; Sycuro et al . , 2012; Sycuro et al . , 2010; Yang et al . , 2019 ) . One of the non-enzymatic proteins is the putative bactofilin CcmA . Bactofilins are bacteria-specific cytoskeletal proteins with diverse functions , including playing a role in stalk elongation in Caulobacter crescentus ( Kühn et al . , 2010 ) and helical pitch modulation in Leptospira biflexa ( Jackson et al . , 2018 ) . CcmA loss in H . pylori results in rod-shaped cells with minimal sidewall curvature ( Sycuro et al . , 2010 ) . As with other organisms , H . pylori CcmA has been shown to self-oligomerize ( Holtrup et al . , 2019 ) . Recently CcmA was shown to co-purify with Csd5 and the PG biosynthetic enzyme MurF ( Blair et al . , 2018 ) , suggesting CcmA may influence cell wall growth . Patterning PG synthesis has been shown to be an important mechanism for cell shape maintenance in several model organisms . In the rod shaped Escherichia coli , MreB helps direct synthesis preferentially to sites at or below zero Gaussian curvature . One working model is that this growth pattern promotes rod shape by accelerating growth at dents and restricting growth at bulges along the sidewall , thereby enforcing diameter control ( Bratton et al . , 2018; Ursell et al . , 2014 ) . In the Gram-positive Bacillus subtilis , MreB filaments have been shown to move in paths oriented approximately perpendicular to the long axis of rod shaped cells . The relative organization of path orientations decreases with an increase in rod diameter , suggesting that filament orientation is sensitive to changes in cell surface curvatures ( Hussain et al . , 2018 ) . Here , we demonstrate that the surface of helical H . pylori cells is characterized by large regions of both positive and negative Gaussian curvature . To investigate how H . pylori achieves diameter control while simultaneously maintaining sidewall curvature , we employed two metabolic probes to investigate PG synthesis patterning in H . pylori . Using superresolution microscopy and 3D quantitative image analysis , we show that synthesis is enhanced at negative Gaussian curvature as well as at a limited range of positive Gaussian curvatures . We furthermore investigate the localization of cytoskeletal proteins MreB and CcmA . We demonstrate that , as in straight-rod shaped E . coli cells , MreB is enriched at negative curvature . CcmA is enriched at the window of positive Gaussian curvatures where enhanced synthesis is observed . We propose that both MreB and CcmA help maintain PG synthesis activity locally and that PG synthesis patterning is one mechanism that plays a fundamental role in helical cell shape maintenance . 
Cdc48/p97 , a ubiquitin-selective chaperone , orchestrates the function of E3 ligases and deubiquitylases ( DUBs ) . Here , we identify a new function of Cdc48 in ubiquitin-dependent regulation of mitochondrial dynamics . The DUBs Ubp12 and Ubp2 exert opposing effects on mitochondrial fusion and cleave different ubiquitin chains on the mitofusin Fzo1 . We demonstrate that Cdc48 integrates the activities of these two DUBs , which are themselves ubiquitylated . First , Cdc48 promotes proteolysis of Ubp12 , stabilizing pro-fusion ubiquitylation on Fzo1 . Second , loss of Ubp12 stabilizes Ubp2 and thereby facilitates removal of ubiquitin chains on Fzo1 inhibiting fusion . Thus , Cdc48 synergistically regulates the ubiquitylation status of Fzo1 , allowing to control the balance between activation or repression of mitochondrial fusion . In conclusion , we unravel a new cascade of ubiquitylation events , comprising Cdc48 and two DUBs , fine-tuning the fusogenic activity of Fzo1 .  Mitochondria are dynamic organelles constantly undergoing fusion and fission events , modulated by a variety of post-translational modifiers including ubiquitin ( Escobar-Henriques and Langer , 2014; Komander and Rape , 2012 ) . Due to their pathological relevance , e . g . for Parkinson’s disease , these processes are subject to intense investigation . For example , Parkin-dependent ubiquitylation of mitochondrial outer membrane ( OM ) proteins modulates the elimination of the damaged organelles by mitophagy , or via mitochondrial-derived vesicles ( MDV ) that fuse with the late endosome ( Pickrell and Youle , 2015; Sugiura et al . , 2014 ) . Most fusion processes , including the Parkin-MDV pathway , rely on SNAREs ( McLelland et al . , 2016 ) . In contrast , fusion of the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) and of mitochondria depend on large dynamin-related GTPases ( Escobar-Henriques and Anton , 2013; Hu and Rapoport , 2016 ) . In mitochondria , they are named mitofusins ( Mfn1/Mfn2 in mammals , Fzo1 in yeast ) . Deficiencies in Mfn2 cause the type 2 subset of the Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease ( CMT ) , the most common degenerative disorder of the peripheral nervous system ( Züchner et al . , 2004 ) . The ubiquitin-specific chaperone Cdc48/p97 is required to maintain mitochondrial morphology ( Esaki and Ogura , 2012 ) . However , the underlying molecular mechanism of how Cdc48 regulates mitochondrial dynamics is not understood . Cdc48 is an essential AAA-ATPase and one of the most abundant proteins in the cell , which recognizes many ubiquitylated substrates and is involved in a myriad of biological processes ( Franz et al . , 2014; Meyer and Weihl , 2014 ) . Cdc48 segregates ubiquitylated substrates from protein complexes , or from membranes , thus allowing their proteolysis by the proteasome ( Franz et al . , 2014 ) . For example , Cdc48 is important for ER-associated protein degradation ( ERAD ) , modulates the turnover of mitochondrial OM proteins ( OMMAD ) , participates in apoptosis responses ( Laun et al . , 2001 ) and mediates clearance of damaged lysosomes by autophagy ( Avci and Lemberg , 2015; Heo et al . , 2010; Papadopoulos et al . , 2017; Tanaka et al . , 2010; Wu et al . , 2016; Xu et al . , 2011; Zattas and Hochstrasser , 2015 ) . On the other hand , Cdc48 also binds E3 ubiquitin ligases and deubiquitylases ( DUBs ) thereby regulating substrate ubiquitylation ( Meyer and Weihl , 2014 ) . DUBs are proteases that catalyze the reversion of the ubiquitylation reaction ( Love et al . , 2007 ) , critically contributing to ubiquitin homeostasis ( Amerik and Hochstrasser , 2004; Kimura and Tanaka , 2010; Park and Ryu , 2014; Swatek and Komander , 2016 ) . DUBs activate ubiquitin by releasing it from ubiquitin precursor polypeptides but are also determinants for the modification status of ubiquitylated substrates , allowing to dampen ubiquitin-mediated events ( Clague et al . , 2013 ) . Importantly , DUBs are associated with a number of human diseases and represent promising drug targets , whose regulation and mechanism of action need to be explored ( Heideker and Wertz , 2015; Sahtoe and Sixma , 2015 ) . Two deubiquitylases , Ubp2 and Ubp12 , were found to have opposite effects on mitochondrial morphology ( Anton et al . , 2013 ) . Ubiquitin chains on Fzo1 that are recognized and cleaved by Ubp12 activate mitochondrial fusion . In contrast , other ubiquitin chains on Fzo1 that instead are recognized and cleaved by Ubp2 target Fzo1 for proteasomal degradation and inhibit mitochondrial fusion . Therefore , although it is clear that ubiquitin is a double-faced regulator of mitochondrial fusion ( Escobar-Henriques and Langer , 2014 ) , how Ubp2 and Ubp12 exert opposite effects on Fzo1 and mitochondrial fusion remained poorly studied . Here , we identify a role of Cdc48 in mitochondrial fusion , as part of a novel enzymatic cascade consisting of Cdc48 , Ubp12 and Ubp2 . Cdc48 negatively regulates Ubp12 , which negatively regulates Ubp2 , explaining why these two DUBs exert opposite effects on their targets and on ubiquitin homeostasis . 
Is vision necessary for the development of the categorical organization of the Ventral Occipito-Temporal Cortex ( VOTC ) ? We used fMRI to characterize VOTC responses to eight categories presented acoustically in sighted and early blind individuals , and visually in a separate sighted group . We observed that VOTC reliably encodes sound categories in sighted and blind people using a representational structure and connectivity partially similar to the one found in vision . Sound categories were , however , more reliably encoded in the blind than the sighted group , using a representational format closer to the one found in vision . Crucially , VOTC in blind represents the categorical membership of sounds rather than their acoustic features . Our results suggest that sounds trigger categorical responses in the VOTC of congenitally blind and sighted people that partially match the topography and functional profile of the visual response , despite qualitative nuances in the categorical organization of VOTC between modalities and groups .  The study of sensory deprived individuals represents a unique model system to test how sensory experience interacts with intrinsic biological constraints to shape the functional organization of the brain . One of the most striking demonstrations of experience-dependent plasticity comes from studies of blind individuals showing that the occipital cortex ( traditionally considered as visual ) massively extends its response repertoire to non-visual inputs ( Neville and Bavelier , 2002; Sadato et al . , 1998 ) . But what are the mechanisms guiding this process of brain reorganization ? It was suggested that the occipital cortex of people born blind is repurposed toward new functions that are distant from the typical tuning of these regions for vision ( Bedny , 2017 ) . In fact , the functional organization of occipital regions has been thought to develop based on innate protomaps implementing a computational bias for low-level visual features including ﻿retinal eccentricity bias ( Malach et al . , 2002 ) , orientation content ( Rice et al . , 2014 ) , spatial frequency content ( Rajimehr et al . , 2011 ) and ﻿the average curvilinearity/rectilinearity of stimuli ( Nasr et al . , 2014 ) . This proto-organization would serve as low-level visual biases scaffolding experience-dependent domain specialization ( Arcaro and Livingstone , 2017; Gomez et al . , 2019 ) . Consequently , in absence of visual experience , the functional organization of the occipital cortex could not develop according to this visual proto-organization and those regions may therefore switch their functional tuning toward distant computations ( Bedny , 2017 ) . In striking contrast with this view , several studies suggested that the occipital cortex of congenitally blind people maintains a division of computational labor somewhat similar to the one characterizing the sighted brain ( Amedi et al . , 2010; Dormal and Collignon , 2011; Ricciardi et al . , 2007 ) . Perhaps , the most striking demonstration that the occipital cortex of blind people develops a similar coding structure and topography as the one typically observed in sighted people comes from studies exploring the response properties of the ventral occipito-temporal cortex ( VOTC ) . In sighted individuals , lesion and neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that VOTC shows a medial to lateral segregation in response to living and non-living visual stimuli , respectively , and that some specific regions respond preferentially to visual objects of specific categories like the fusiform face area ( FFA; Kanwisher et al . , 1997; Tong et al . , 2000 ) , the extrastriate body area ( EBA; Downing et al . , 2001 ) or the parahippocampal place area ( PPA; Epstein and Kanwisher , 1998 ) . Interestingly , In early blind people , the functional preference for words ( Reich et al . , 2011 ) or letters ( Striem-Amit et al . , 2012 ) , motion ( Dormal et al . , 2016; Poirier et al . , 2004 ) , places ( He et al . , 2013; Wolbers et al . , 2011 ) , bodies ( Kitada et al . , 2014; Striem-Amit and Amedi , 2014 ) , tools ( Peelen et al . , 2013 ) and shapes ( Amedi et al . , 2007 ) partially overlaps with similar categorical responses in sighted people when processing visual inputs . Distributed multivariate pattern analyses ( Haxby et al . , 2001 ) have also supported the idea that the large-scale categorical layout in VOTC shares similarities between sighted and blind people ( Handjaras et al . , 2016; van den Hurk et al . , 2017; Peelen et al . , 2014; Wang et al . , 2015 ) . For example , it was shown that the tactile exploration of different manufactured objects ( shoes and bottles ) elicits distributed activity in VOTC of blind people similar to the one observed in sighted people in vision ( Pietrini et al . , 2004 ) . A recent study demonstrated that the response patterns elicited by sounds of four different categories in the VOTC of blind people could successfully predict the categorical response to images of the same categories in the VOTC of sighted controls , suggesting overlapping distributed categorical responses in sighted for vision and in blind for sounds ( van den Hurk et al . , 2017 ) . All together , these studies suggest that there is more to the development of the categorical response of VOTC than meets the eye ( Collignon et al . , 2012 ) . However , these researches leave several important questions unanswered . If a spatial overlap exists between the sighted processing visual inputs and the blind processing non-visual material , whether VOTC represents similar informational content in both groups remains unknown . It is possible , for instance , that the overlap in categorical responses between groups comes from the fact that VOTC represents visual attributes in the sighted ( Arcaro and Livingstone , 2017; Gomez et al . , 2019 ) and acoustic attributes in the blind due to crossmodal plasticity ( Bavelier and Neville , 2002 ) . Indeed , several studies involving congenitally blind have shown that their occipital cortex may represent acoustic features – for instance frequencies ( Huber et al . , 2019; Watkins et al . , 2013 ) – which form the basis of the development of categorical selectivity in the auditory cortex ( Moerel et al . , 2012 ) . Such preferential responses for visual or acoustic features in the sighted and blind , respectively , may lead to overlapping patterns of activity for similar categories while implementing separate computations on the sensory inputs . Alternatively , it is possible that the VOTC of both groups code for higher-order categorical membership of stimuli presented in vision in sighted and audition in the blind , at least partial independently from low-level features of the stimuli . Moreover , the degree of similarity between the categorical representation in sighted and in blind might differ across different categories: not all the regions in VOTC seem to be affected to the same extent by the crossmodal plasticity reorganization ( Bi et al . , 2016; Dormal et al . , 2018; Wang et al . , 2015 ) . This ‘domain–by–modality interaction’ suggests that intrinsic characteristics of objects belonging to different categories might drive this difference . However , a qualitative exploration of the structure of the categorical representation in the VOTC of blind and sighted is still missing . Another unresolved but important question is whether sighted people also show categorical responses in VOTC to acoustic information similar to the one they show in vision . For instance , the two multivariate studies using sensory ( not word ) stimulation ( tactile , Pietrini et al . , 2004; auditory , van den Hurk et al . , 2017 ) of various categories in sighted and blind either did not find the existence of category-related patterns of response in the ventral temporal cortex of sighted people ( Pietrini et al . , 2004 ) or did not report overlapping distributed response between categories presented acoustically or visually in sighted people ( van den Hurk et al . , 2017 ) . Therefore , it remains controversial whether similar categorical responses in VOTC for visual and non-visual sensory stimuli only emerge in the absence of bottom-up visual inputs during development or whether it is an organizational property also found in the VOTC of sighted people . Finally , it has been suggested that VOTC regions might display similar functional profile for sound and sight in sighted and blind because different portions of this region integrate specific large-scale brain networks sharing similar functional coding . However , empirical evidence supporting this mechanistic account remains scarce . With these unsolved questions in mind , we relied on a series of complementary multivariate analyses in order to carry out a comprehensive mapping of the representational geometry underlying low-level ( acoustic or visual features mapping ) and categorical responses to images and sounds in the VOTC of sighted and early blind people . All together our results demonstrate that early visual deprivation triggers an extension of the intrinsic , partially non-visual , categorical organization of VOTC , potentially supported by a connectivity bias of portions of VOTC with specific large-scale functional brain networks . However , the categorical representation of the auditory stimuli in VOTC of both blind and sighted individuals exhibits different qualitative nuances compared to the categorical organization generated by visual stimuli in sighted people . 
Many microbes induce striking behavioral changes in their animal hosts , but how they achieve this is poorly understood , especially at the molecular level . Mechanistic understanding has been largely constrained by the lack of an experimental system amenable to molecular manipulation . We recently discovered a strain of the behavior-manipulating fungal pathogen Entomophthora muscae infecting wild Drosophila , and established methods to infect D . melanogaster in the lab . Lab-infected flies manifest the moribund behaviors characteristic of E . muscae infection: hours before death , they climb upward , extend their proboscides , affixing in place , then raise their wings , clearing a path for infectious spores to launch from their abdomens . We found that E . muscae invades the nervous system , suggesting a direct means by which the fungus could induce behavioral changes . Given the vast molecular toolkit available for D . melanogaster , we believe this new system will enable rapid progress in understanding how E . muscae manipulates host behavior .  Among the most extraordinary products of evolution are microorganisms that can manipulate animal behavior to their advantage . Some of the best characterized examples of this phenomenon are found within the entomopathogenic fungi , fungal species that parasitize insect hosts . The ability to precisely manipulate insect behavior has evolved independently multiple times within the fungal kingdom and the hosts of these fungi span many insect orders ( Araújo and Hughes , 2016 ) . While some behaviorally-manipulating entomopathogenic fungi have been known to science since the mid nineteenth century , others are only now being discovered and described ( Steinkraus et al . , 2017; Hodge et al . , 2017; Cohn , 1855; Hughes et al . , 2011; Arthur , 1886; Humber , 1976 ) . Despite substantial progress made in understanding the ecology and phylogeny of these organisms , the molecular mechanisms by which entomopathogenic fungi hijack the animal nervous system have remained elusive . Recent molecular and genomic studies of the ant parasite Ophiocordyceps unilateralis highlight the opportunities and challenges in studying entomopathogenic fungi of non-model organism hosts . This so- called ‘zombie ant fungus’ induces an infected ant to climb to a high place and affix itself in place using its mandibles before succumbing to the infection , whereupon the ascomycete devours the insect’s tissue as a fruiting body emerges from behind the ant’s head and pronotum . Metabolomic analysis of host brains cultured ex vivo in the presence of O . unilateralis has found that the fungus secretes specific sets of metabolites in response to being grown with ex vivo dissected brains from its natural hosts ( de Bekker et al . , 2014 ) . Transcriptomic measurements of the heads of infected ants during and after behavior manipulation revealed changes in the expression of fungal genes responsible for secreted factors and enterotoxins , while changes in ant gene expression indicate a dampened immune response during biting ( de Bekker et al . , 2015 ) . Most recently , microscopy data has shown that O . unilateralis does not invade host neural tissue and instead , forms complex fungal networks around host mandibular muscle , which could reflect intercellular communication within the fungus inside the ant body cavity ( Fredericksen et al . , 2017 ) . While this work has helped elucidate the molecular basis of behavioral manipulation , further progress with limited by the lack of established genetic tools in either the fungus or the host and neurobiological tools in the host . Intriguingly , a similar suite of behaviors are induced in dipterans by the distantly related Zygomycete fungi within the Entomophthora muscae species complex ( Keller , 1984; MacLeod et al . , 1976 ) . E . muscae , whose genus name Entomophthora comes from the Greek ‘entomo’ for insect and ‘phthora’ for destroyer , was first described in house flies ( Musca domestica ) in 1855 ( Cohn , 1855 ) . A fly infected with E . muscae exhibits a characteristic set of fungus-induced behaviors: shortly before sunset on its final day of life , the fly climbs to a high location ( a behavior known as ‘summiting’ ) , extends its proboscis and becomes affixed to the surface via fungal holdfasts , hyphal growths that emerge through the mouthparts ( Roy et al . , 2006; Balazy , 1984; Krasnoff et al . , 1995 ) . The fly’s wings then lift up and away from its dorsal abdomen , striking a final death pose that is thought to be ideal for fungal dispersal ( Krasnoff et al . , 1995 ) . Over the course of the next few hours , the fungus differentiates into structures called conidiophores within the dead fly . Conidiophores emerge through the weakest points in the fly’s cuticle , typically the intersegmental membranes of the dorsal abdomen , giving the cadavers a distinct banding pattern ( Brobyn and Wilding , 1983 ) . A primary conidium ( also referred to as a ‘spore’ ) forms at the tip of each conidiophore; once mature , these conidia are forcibly ejected into the surrounding environment in order to land on the cuticle of a susceptible fly host ( Mullens and Rodriguez , 1985; Mullens et al . , 1987 ) . Launched primary conidia are polynucleated , campanulate ( bell-shaped ) and are surrounded by a sticky ‘halo’ that serves to adhere the conidium where it lands . If successful in landing on the cuticle of a new host , the conidium germinates , using both mechanical and enzymatic force to bore through the cuticle and into the fly’s hemolymph ( Brobyn and Wilding , 1983; Charnley , 1984 ) . If the primary conidium misses its target or fails to germinate upon landing on the host ( Watson and Petersen , 1993 ) , it can sporulate anew to generate a smaller secondary conidium ( Mullens and Rodriguez , 1985 ) . Off-target conidia can continue to re-sporulate and give rise to smaller , higher order conidia until a host is reached or resources are exhausted ( Mullens and Rodriguez , 1985 ) . Once inside the fly , the fungus is initially sustained by nutrients in the hemolymph and then later consumes the fat body as an energy source ( Brobyn and Wilding , 1983 ) . When available resources are depleted , the fungus elicits the previously-described end-of-life behaviors and the fungal life cycle begins again . The E . muscae species complex consists of several genetically , though not always morphologically , distinct species that are capable of infecting dipterans in a variety of fly families ( most frequently Muscidae ) ( Keller , 2002 , 2007 ) . In the wild , species within the E . muscae species complex have been observed to infect more than one host species ( Mullens et al . , 1987; Klingen et al . , 2000 ) . However , recent molecular evidence suggests that there may be additional host specialization within some E . muscae complex species ( Gryganskyi et al . , 2013; Jensen et al . , 2009 ) . In the laboratory , a range of fly species can be infected and killed by E . muscae , though not all infected hosts manifest the stereotypical end-of-life behaviors , and susceptibility has not been found to track with host phylogeny ( Steinkraus and Kramer , 1987; Kramer and Steinkraus , 1981 ) . E . muscae has almost exclusively been observed and studied in muscoid flies ( especially the house fly , Musca domestica ) , organisms for which very few experimental tools exist ( Keller , 2007 ) . Thus , despite inspiring curiosity and intrigue for over a century , how E . muscae achieves control of its host remains poorly understood , with essentially no information as to what is occurring at the molecular level in either fungus or host . Although there have been only a few reports of E . muscae infection in wild Drosophila ( Keller , 2002; Turian and Wuest , 1969; Goldstein , 1927 ) , we observed several wild Drosophila in separate sites in Northern California with the characteristic death pose and fungal banding of E . muscae infections , and saw an opportunity to study a behavior-changing fungus in the laboratory species , Drosophila melanogaster . Here , we describe the isolation and subsequent characterization of this E . muscae strain and its impact on D . melanogaster behavior in the laboratory , and present the E . muscae-D . melanogaster system as a model for developing a mechanistic understanding of parasitic manipulation of host behavior . 
RNA degradation pathways enable RNA processing , the regulation of RNA levels , and the surveillance of aberrant or poorly functional RNAs in cells . Here we provide transcriptome-wide RNA-binding profiles of 30 general RNA degradation factors in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae . The profiles reveal the distribution of degradation factors between different RNA classes . They are consistent with the canonical degradation pathway for closed-loop forming mRNAs after deadenylation . Modeling based on mRNA half-lives suggests that most degradation factors bind intact mRNAs , whereas decapping factors are recruited only for mRNA degradation , consistent with decapping being a rate-limiting step . Decapping factors preferentially bind mRNAs with non-optimal codons , consistent with rapid degradation of inefficiently translated mRNAs . Global analysis suggests that the nuclear surveillance machinery , including the complexes Nrd1/Nab3 and TRAMP4 , targets aberrant nuclear RNAs and processes snoRNAs .  The abundance of the different eukaryotic RNA species controls cell type and cell fate , and is determined by the balance between RNA synthesis and RNA degradation . Multiple mechanisms exist for RNA degradation ( Parker , 2012 ) . RNAs are generally exported to the cytoplasm , where they are degraded with an RNA-specific rate . Such canonical turnover is critical for RNA homeostasis . However , RNAs that are defective with respect to their processing , folding , assembly into RNA-protein particles , or their ability to be translated , are identified and rapidly degraded by surveillance pathways . Surveillance occurs both in the nucleus ( Schmid and Jensen , 2018 ) and in the cytoplasm ( Zinder and Lima , 2017 ) . In the nucleus , aberrant RNAs resulting from upstream antisense transcription are quickly degraded . Moreover , some non-coding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) require processing by the degradation machinery ( Houseley et al . , 2006 ) . Cytosolic RNAs also vary in their life-time , with mRNAs encoding cell cycle regulators or transcription factors having reported life-times in the range of minutes ( Geisberg et al . , 2014; Miller et al . , 2011 ) , whereas ribosomal RNAs live for days ( Turowski and Tollervey , 2015 ) . Therefore , RNA degradation kinetics need to be actively regulated to ensure the optimal life time for each transcript . RNA degradation can occur from both ends of a transcript , and these processes are often coupled . During canonical mRNA turnover , degradation is thought to be initiated by shortening of the 3´ poly-adenylated ( polyA ) tail through two major deadenylation complexes , the Pan2/Pan3 complex and the multi-subunit Ccr4/Not complex ( Ccr4 , Not1 , Pop2 , Caf40 ) ( Wolf and Passmore , 2014 ) . Specific mRNAs can recruit selected deadenylating factors after loss of the polyadenylate-binding protein ( Pab1 ) that protects the mRNA from degradation on the 3′ end ( Finoux and Séraphin , 2006; Goldstrohm et al . , 2006; Semotok et al . , 2005 ) , but the choice of deadenylation pathway remains unclear . Studies have pointed out a direct link between translation termination and mRNA degradation ( reviewed in Huch and Nissan , 2014 ) , in particular deadenylation , which is dependent on Pab1 and Ccr4 ( Webster et al . , 2018 ) . A proposed stepwise model for deadenylation suggests that first the average yeast polyA tail length of 90 nucleotides ( nt ) is reduced to 50 nt by the Pan2/Pan3 complex , before further shortening via the Ccr4/Not complex ( Beilharz and Preiss , 2007; Brown and Sachs , 1998; Tucker et al . , 2001 ) . When the polyA tail reaches a length of 10–12 nt , the mRNA is decapped ( Chowdhury et al . , 2007; Tharun and Parker , 2001 ) , or subjected to exosome catalyzed degradation ( Bonneau et al . , 2009 ) . The second step in mRNA degradation is thought to be the removal of the 5´ cap by the decapping complex ( Dcp1 , Dcp2 , Dcs1 ) . The cap protects the mRNA from degradation by the 5´→3´ exonuclease Xrn1 , which requires a 5´ monophosphate at the terminal residue ( Stevens and Poole , 1995 ) . Decapping is highly regulated by decapping enhancers such as the DEAD box helicase Dhh1 , Edc2 and Edc3 . Different potential mechanisms to trigger decapping include interference with translation initiation factors , facilitated assembly of the decapping machinery , and stimulation of Dcp2 catalytic function . Assembly of the decapping machinery occurs mainly after shortening of the polyA tail , which triggers decapping complex formation on the deadenylated 3´ end of mRNA and opening of the mRNA closed-loop structure ( Caponigro and Parker , 1995; Morrissey et al . , 1999 ) . In this closed-loop model , the 5′ and 3′ ends of the mRNA are thought to be in close proximity by forming a complex between translation initiation factors binding to the 5´ cap and Pab1 associated with the 3´ end , thereby contributing to mRNA expression regulation ( Vicens et al . , 2018; Wells et al . , 1998 ) . An alternative pathway of mRNA degradation after deadenylation is 3′→5′ degradation by the exosome and its auxiliary factors ( Anderson and Parker , 1998 ) . The exosome is a multi-subunit complex that consists of 10 core factors , comprising six members of the RNase PH protein family ( Rrp43 , Rrp45 , Rrp42 , Mtr3 , Rrp41 , Rrp46 ) , three small RNA-binding proteins ( Csl4 , Rrp40 , Rrp4 ) ( Allmang et al . , 1999 ) , and the Rrp44/Dis3 protein , which harbors an exonuclease and an endonuclease domain ( Lebreton and Séraphin , 2008; Schaeffer et al . , 2009 ) . In addition to its functions in the cytoplasm , the exosome fulfills multiple roles in nuclear RNA processing and degradation ( Lykke-Andersen et al . , 2009; Ogami et al . , 2018 ) for which it is additionally bound by Rrp6 , another 3′→5′ exonuclease , Rrp47 , and Mpp6 ( Milligan et al . , 2008; Mitchell et al . , 2003; Synowsky et al . , 2009 ) . For RNA degradation by the exosome , RNA first passes through either the TRAMP or the Ski complex . TRAMP is a nuclear poly-adenylation complex ( Houseley and Tollervey , 2009 ) that is involved in many of the RNA maturation and degradation processes and exists in two isoforms , TRAMP4 ( Trf4 , Air2 and Mtr4 ) and TRAMP5 ( Trf5 , Air1 and Mtr4 ) . These complexes harbor a pA polymerase ( Trf4 or Trf5 ) , a zinc-knuckle putative RNA-binding protein ( Air1 or Air2 ) , and an RNA helicase ( Mtr4 ) . Defective nuclear RNAs are tagged with a short polyA tail by TRAMP , making them a more favorable substrate for the exosome core ( Vanácová et al . , 2005 ) . The Ski complex is required for cytoplasmic exosomal degradation . The Ski7 protein is stably bound to the cytoplasmic exosome through the Ski4 subunit ( van Hoof et al . , 2002 ) . The Ski2 , Ski3 , and Ski8 proteins form a subcomplex interacting with Ski7 , which is required for 3′→5′ degradation of mRNAs ( Araki et al . , 2001; Brown et al . , 2000; Wang et al . , 2005 ) . The Ski2 protein is an ATPase of the RNA helicase family that generates energy by ATP hydrolysis to unwind secondary structures and dissociate bound proteins to deliver the RNA to the exosome . To degrade eukaryotic mRNAs that are defective in translation , cytoplasmic quality control mechanisms exist ( Doma and Parker , 2007 ) . Normal and aberrant mRNAs can be discriminated by the translation machinery , and translationally defective mRNAs are guided to a degradation pathway . mRNAs with aberrant translation termination due to a premature translation termination codon are subjected to nonsense-mediated decay ( NMD ) ( Losson and Lacroute , 1979 ) . Substrates for NMD are identified by the Upf1 protein interacting with the translation termination complex followed by binding of the Upf2 and Upf3 proteins , which enhances the helicase activity of Upf1 ( Baker and Parker , 2004; Chakrabarti et al . , 2011 ) . During NMD , the mRNA can be subjected to enhanced deadenylation , deadenylation-independent decapping and rapid 3′→5′ degradation ( Cao and Parker , 2003; Mitchell and Tollervey , 2003; Muhlrad and Parker , 1994 ) . The large variety of different RNA degradation factors poses the question how RNA degradation pathways are selected and whether the RNA sequence can influence this selection . Answering this question requires a systematic analysis of the RNA-binding profiles of the involved protein factors . Although several transcriptome profiles of the RNA degradation factors Xrn1 , Rrp44 , Csl4 , Rrp41 , Rrp6 , Mtr4 , Trf4 , Air2 and Ski2 have been reported ( Delan-Forino et al . , 2017; Milligan et al . , 2016; Schneider et al . , 2012; Tuck and Tollervey , 2013 ) , we lack transcriptome-wide binding profiles for components of the deadenylation , decapping , and NMD machineries , as well as other subunits of the exosome complex . Thus , the task of systematically analyzing the binding of subunits from all known factors involved in RNA degradation to a eukaryotic transcriptome ( ‘transcriptome mapping’ ) has not been accomplished thus far . Here we used photoactivatable ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation ( PAR-CLIP ) to systematically generate transcriptome-wide protein binding profiles for 30 general RNA degradation factors in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae ( S . cerevisiae ) . In-depth bioinformatic analysis and comparisons with previously reported PAR-CLIP data provide factor enrichment on different RNA classes and the binding behavior for mRNAs and their associated antisense transcripts . The results also give insights into how the various degradation complexes , and also different subunits in these complexes , may be involved in the degradation of different RNA species . Several conclusions can be drawn with respect to degradation pathway selection , new functions for known factors can be proposed , and several hypotheses emerge that can be tested in the future . Finally , our dataset provides a rich resource for future studies of eukaryotic RNA degradation pathways , mechanisms , and the integration of mRNA metabolism . 
Temporal dynamics of gene expression underpin responses to internal and environmental stimuli . In eukaryotes , regulation of gene induction includes changing chromatin states at target genes and recruiting the transcriptional machinery that includes transcription factors . As one of the most potent defense compounds in Arabidopsis thaliana , camalexin can be rapidly induced by bacterial and fungal infections . Though several transcription factors controlling camalexin biosynthesis genes have been characterized , how the rapid activation of genes in this pathway upon a pathogen signal is enabled remains unknown . By combining publicly available epigenomic data with in vivo chromatin modification mapping , we found that camalexin biosynthesis genes are marked with two epigenetic modifications with opposite effects on gene expression , trimethylation of lysine 27 of histone 3 ( H3K27me3 ) ( repression ) and acetylation of lysine 18 of histone 3 ( H3K18ac ) ( activation ) , to form a previously uncharacterized type of bivalent chromatin . Mutants with reduced H3K27me3 or H3K18ac suggested that both modifications were required to determine the timing of gene expression and metabolite accumulation at an early stage of the stress response . Our study indicates that the H3K27me3-H3K18ac bivalent chromatin , which we name as kairostat , plays an important role in controlling the timely induction of gene expression upon stress stimuli in plants .  Plants produce many metabolites that are essential for responding to environmental cues , the expression of which requires tight temporal control ( Barco and Clay , 2019; Grotewold , 2005; Martin et al . , 2010 ) . One of the most prominent defense metabolites from Arabidopsis thaliana is camalexin . Camalexin is an indole alkaloid derived from tryptophan and can be induced rapidly by various biotic and abiotic stimuli in Arabidopsis ( Stotz et al . , 2011 ) . Essential biosynthetic enzymes belong to the cytochrome P450 family , including CYP79B2/3 , CYP71A12/13 , and PHYTOALEXIN DEFICIENT 3 ( PAD3 ) ( Klein et al . , 2013; Schuhegger et al . , 2006 ) . The expression of these enzymatic genes can be rapidly induced by various abiotic and biotic stresses , and pathogen-derived substances such as flagellin 22 ( FLG22 ) and oligogalacturonides ( Denoux et al . , 2008 ) . Previous studies revealed complex transcriptional and translational control of camalexin biosynthesis genes ( Frerigmann et al . , 2016; Stahl et al . , 2016; Zhou et al . , 2020; Birkenbihl et al . , 2012; Frerigmann et al . , 2015; Mao et al . , 2011 ) . At the transcriptional regulation level , transcription factors from the MYB family , including MYB34 , MYB51 , and MYB122 , promote camalexin biosynthesis in response to Pseudomonas syringae infection ( Stahl et al . , 2016; Frerigmann et al . , 2015 ) . WRKY33 functions as an activator and directly binds to the promoters of camalexin biosynthesis genes ( Birkenbihl et al . , 2012 ) . Besides transcription factors , CALCIUM-DEPENDENT PROTEIN KINASE ( CPK ) 5/6 and MAPK3/6 can phosphorylate WRKY33 to enhance promoter binding and transactivation ( Zhou et al . , 2020; Mao et al . , 2011 ) . At the translational level , ribosome footprinting showed that genes involved in camalexin biosynthesis , CYP79B2 and CYP79B3 , also increased translational efficiency under pattern triggered immunity ( Xu et al . , 2017; Yoo et al . , 2020 ) . Despite the rich knowledge of these upstream regulators of the camalexin biosynthetic pathway , it remains unknown how the rapid induction upon a pathogen signal is enabled . The accessibility of target gene regions to transcription factors is determined by the dynamics of chromatin states in eukaryotic cells ( Stricker et al . , 2017 ) . Chromatin states are controlled by epigenetic modifications that influence nucleosome accessibility ( Vihervaara et al . , 2018 ) . Epigenetic modifications constitute various covalent decoration of chemical groups to histones and DNA , which are associated with promoting or repressing gene expression by altering chromatin accessibility to transcription factors ( Stricker et al . , 2017; Henikoff and Greally , 2016; Venkatesh and Workman , 2015 ) . For example , trimethylation of lysine 27 of histone 3 ( H3K27me3 ) , established by the polycomb repressive complex 2 , is associated with repressing gene expression ( Carter et al . , 2018 ) . H3K27me3 represses gene expression by increasing chromatin condensation and limiting the recruitment of transcription factors and other components of the transcriptional machinery ( Aranda et al . , 2015 ) . Trimethylation of lysine 4 of histone 3 ( H3K4me3 ) is marked at actively transcribed genes ( Zhang et al . , 2009 ) , which activates gene expression by promoting the recruitment of transcription initiation factors to promoters of target genes ( Lauberth et al . , 2013 ) . Epigenetic marks that play opposite roles on gene expression can co-localize at the same gene regions to form bivalent chromatins ( Bernstein et al . , 2006; Voigt et al . , 2013 ) . Bivalent chromatins were initially observed to be associated with genes involved in cell differentiation in human embryonic stem cells and the most reported variant is formed by H3K27me3 and H3K4me3 ( Bernstein et al . , 2006; Dattani et al . , 2018; Sachs et al . , 2013 ) . Bivalent chromatins also exist in other mammalian cell types and can be formed by other epigenetic marks , including additional activating ( H3K4me1 , H3K4me2 , H3K36me3 , H3K9ac , H3K27ac , H3K14ac , H4K18ac ) and repressive ( H3K9me2 , H3K9me3 , H4K20me3 , 5Mc ) marks ( van der Velde et al . , 2021; Xu and Kidder , 2018; Charlet et al . , 2016; Matsumura et al . , 2015; Roy and Sridharan , 2017 ) . In plants , the H3K27m3-H3K4me3 bivalent chromatin has been observed at FLOWERING LOCUS C ( FLC ) ( Jiang et al . , 2008 ) in A . thaliana and genes associated with cold stress in potato tuber ( Zeng et al . , 2019 ) . Recently , a novel bivalent chromatin formed by H3K27me3 and H3K4me1 was identified in Brassica napus ( Zhang et al . , 2021 ) . Therefore , bivalent chromatins can be formed by different pairs of epigenetic marks . Despite many reports on the existence of bivalent chromatins , much less is known about their biological roles . The only function that has been proposed for a bivalent chromatin is to poise the expression of developmental genes in stem cells for rapid activation into differentiation ( Bernstein et al . , 2006 ) . This hypothesis has been tested and supported by studies only on mammalian embryonic stem cells or cancer cells ( Deng et al . , 2013; Lima-Fernandes et al . , 2019; Jia et al . , 2012 ) . The ‘poise genes for transcriptional activation’ role of bivalent chromatin has not yet been tested on a whole organism . And , to our knowledge , no other role has been implicated for bivalent chromatins . Here , by integrating epigenomic profiles with a genome-wide metabolic network in Arabidopsis , we found that two epigenetic marks playing opposite roles on gene expression , H3K27me3 and H3K18ac , were enriched at camalexin biosynthesis and several other specialized metabolic pathways . Focusing on the camalexin biosynthesis pathway in this study , sequential chromatin immunoprecipitation ( SeqChIP ) -PCR confirmed that these two marks were co-localized in vivo and formed a previously uncharacterized type of bivalent chromatin . Mutants defective in H3K27m3 and H3K18ac suggested that both modifications were required to determine the timely induction of camalexin biosynthetic gene expression and camalexin accumulation under FLG22 treatment . This study revealed a new type of bivalent chromatin whose function may be to determine the timely induction of defense-compound biosynthesis in response to a pathogen signal . 
The epigenetic mechanisms that enable specialized astrocytes to retain neurogenic competence throughout adult life are still poorly understood . Here we show that astrocytes that serve as neural stem cells ( NSCs ) in the adult mouse subventricular zone ( SVZ ) express the histone methyltransferase EZH2 . This Polycomb repressive factor is required for neurogenesis independent of its role in SVZ NSC proliferation , as Ink4a/Arf-deficiency in Ezh2-deleted SVZ NSCs rescues cell proliferation , but neurogenesis remains defective . Olig2 is a direct target of EZH2 , and repression of this bHLH transcription factor is critical for neuronal differentiation . Furthermore , Ezh2 prevents the inappropriate activation of genes associated with non-SVZ neuronal subtypes . In the human brain , SVZ cells including local astroglia also express EZH2 , correlating with postnatal neurogenesis . Thus , EZH2 is an epigenetic regulator that distinguishes neurogenic SVZ astrocytes , orchestrating distinct and separable aspects of adult stem cell biology , which has important implications for regenerative medicine and oncogenesis .  It is now appreciated that , like neurons , astrocytes serve multiple functions in the adult brain and are heterogeneous in their identity ( Zhang and Barres , 2010; Molofsky et al . , 2012 ) . While astrocytes are distributed widely throughout the brain , only those located in the subventricular zone ( SVZ ) of the lateral ventricles and subgranular zone ( SGZ ) of the hippocampus serve as neurogenic NSCs for all of adult life ( Kriegstein and Alvarez-Buylla , 2009 ) . Though several transcriptional regulators have been identified that distinguish neurogenic astroglia ( Hsieh , 2012 ) , what makes adult NSCs epigenetically distinct from non-neurogenic astrocytes remains an outstanding question . Understanding these differences may yield novel insights into how adult stem cells retain the competence to self-renew and generate multiple specialized cell types . In particular , Polycomb group ( PcG ) proteins , which comprise a chromatin-remodeling system that mediates transcriptional repression , have been demonstrated to play a crucial role in the development of various cell populations ( Aloia et al . , 2013 ) . PcG proteins assemble into two functionally distinct Polycomb repressive complexes , PRC1 and PRC2 . PRC2 typically contains the core components SUZ12 , EED , RbAp46/48 , and EZH2 , a histone methyltransferase responsible for catalyzing histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation ( H3K27me3 ) . In the prevailing model of PcG-mediated repression , PRC2 is targeted to specific loci , and the deposited H3K27me3 marks serve as a platform to recruit PRC1 , leading to transcriptional silencing ( Margueron and Reinberg , 2011 ) . Most of what is known about PRC2 developmental function derives from studies of the embryo . In the early developing forebrain , conditional deletion of Ezh2 results in a shortened period of neuronal production related to lack of precursor cell proliferation and premature NSC differentiation ( Pereira et al . , 2010 ) ; in contrast , deletion of Ezh2 a few days later during corticogenesis causes an increase in the duration of neurogenesis and a delay in astrocyte differentiation ( Hirabayashi et al . , 2009 ) . Thus , EZH2 , in concert with other PcG members , appears to orchestrate the temporal alterations in embryonic NSC behavior . In contrast to the dynamic and transient nature of embryonic NSCs , adult NSCs are relatively stable in their differentiation potential and are maintained for all of adult life . Postnatal NSCs lacking PRC1 component BMI1 are defective for self-renewal , in part due to the derepression of cell cycle inhibitors encoded by the Ink4a/Arf locus ( also known as Cdkn2a ) ( Molofsky et al . , 2003 ) . Whether PcG factors are required for other aspects of adult neurogenesis such as lineage specification is not known . In this study , we found EZH2 expression to be a distinguishing feature of neurogenic astrocytes in the adult mouse brain . Ezh2 in SVZ NSCs was required for distinct functions , regulating both cell proliferation and neuronal lineage specification . To enable SVZ NSC self-renewal , EZH2 directly repressed the Ink4a/Arf locus . Ink4a/Arf-deletion reversed the proliferation defect of Ezh2-deleted NSCs , but neurogenesis was still greatly impaired . In SVZ cells , EZH2 directly targeted Olig2 , and repression of this bHLH transcription factor was required for neuronal differentiation . Furthermore , genome-wide transcript and chromatin analyses revealed a role for EZH2 in preventing the aberrant activation of transcriptional regulators that specify alternative neuronal lineages . In the human brain , EZH2 was also expressed in astroglia and neuronal precursors of the early infant SVZ , suggesting that this PRC2 factor plays key roles in postnatal human neurogenesis . Taken together , these data indicate that EZH2 is a critical epigenetic determinant for the maintenance of multipotent astroglia , enabling both proliferation and cell fate specification of an adult stem cell population . 
Viruses modulate microbial communities and alter ecosystem functions . However , due to cultivation bottlenecks , specific virus–host interaction dynamics remain cryptic . In this study , we examined 127 single-cell amplified genomes ( SAGs ) from uncultivated SUP05 bacteria isolated from a model marine oxygen minimum zone ( OMZ ) to identify 69 viral contigs representing five new genera within dsDNA Caudovirales and ssDNA Microviridae . Infection frequencies suggest that ∼1/3 of SUP05 bacteria is viral-infected , with higher infection frequency where oxygen-deficiency was most severe . Observed Microviridae clonality suggests recovery of bloom-terminating viruses , while systematic co-infection between dsDNA and ssDNA viruses posits previously unrecognized cooperation modes . Analyses of 186 microbial and viral metagenomes revealed that SUP05 viruses persisted for years , but remained endemic to the OMZ . Finally , identification of virus-encoded dissimilatory sulfite reductase suggests SUP05 viruses reprogram their host's energy metabolism . Together , these results demonstrate closely coupled SUP05 virus–host co-evolutionary dynamics with the potential to modulate biogeochemical cycling in climate-critical and expanding OMZs .  Microbial communities are critical drivers of nutrient and energy conversion process in natural and engineered ecosystems ( Falkowski et al . , 2008 ) . In the last two decades , it has progressively become clear that viral-mediated predation , gene transfer , and metabolic reprogramming modulate the structure , function , and evolutionary trajectory of these microbial communities ( Suttle , 2007; Abedon , 2009; Rodriguez-Valera et al . , 2009; Hurwitz et al . , 2013 ) . At the same time , the vast majority of microbes and viruses remain uncultivated and their diversity is extensive , so that model system-based measurements rarely reflect the network properties of natural microbial communities . While culture-independent methods , such as metagenomics and metatranscriptomics , can illuminate latent and expressed metabolic potential of microbial ( Frias-Lopez et al . , 2008; Venter et al . , 2004; Stewart et al . , 2012; DeLong et al . , 2006 ) or viral communities ( Angly et al . , 2006; Hurwitz et al . , 2013; Mizuno et al . , 2013 ) , interactions between community members remain difficult to resolve . Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats ( CRISPRs ) containing short stretches of viral or plasmid DNA separated between repeat sequences can provide a record of past infections in uncultivated microbial communities . Together with associated Cas ( CRISPR-associated ) genes , CRISPRs function as an adaptive immune system in prokaryotes with the potential to suppress viral replication or horizontal gene transfer ( Sorek et al . , 2008 ) . However , an application of CRISPR-based virus–host association to both uncultivated hosts and viruses require the assembly of complete or near-complete genomes of both entities , limiting their utility to lower diversity ecosystems ( Andersson and Banfield , 2008; Anderson et al . , 2011 ) . Alternatively , single-cell amplified genome ( SAG ) sequencing is emerging as a more direct method to chart metabolic potential of individual cells within microbial communities with special emphasis on candidate phyla that have no cultured representatives ( Yoon et al . , 2011; Martinez-Garcia et al . , 2012; Rinke et al . , 2013; Swan et al . , 2013 ) . Here , we combine metagenomic and single-cell genomic sequencing to explore virus–host interactions within uncultivated bacteria inhabiting a marine oxygen minimum zone ( OMZ ) . Marine OMZs , defined by dissolved oxygen concentrations <20 μmol kg−1 , are oceanographic features that arise from elevated demand for respiratory oxygen in poorly ventilated , highly stratified waters . OMZs are crucial for biogeochemical cycles in the global ocean , as they represent hotspots for microbial-driven carbon , nitrogen , and sulfur transformations ( Ulloa et al . , 2012; Wright et al . , 2012 ) and play a disproportionate role in nitrogen loss processes and greenhouse gas cycling ( Lam et al . , 2009; Ward et al . , 2009 ) . Moreover , these zones are expanding due to changing ocean water temperatures and circulation patterns ( Stramma et al . , 2008; Whitney et al . , 2007 ) . Given these changing physical and chemical conditions and the importance of OMZs to ocean-atmosphere functioning , a clearer understanding of biological responses is critical to develop a much-needed predictive modeling capacity for OMZs . In OMZs , microbial communities drive matter and energy transformations and are typically dominated by sulfur-oxidizing Gammaproteobacteria related to the chemoautotrophic gill symbionts of deep-sea clams and mussels ( Stewart et al . , 2012; Wright et al . , 2012 ) . Phylogenetic analysis indicates that these bacteria are comprised of two primary lineages; one consisting of sequences affiliated with SUP05 and clam and mussel symbionts , and the other consisting of sequences affiliated with Arctic96BD-19 ( Walsh et al . , 2009; Wright et al . , 2012 ) . Both groups partition along gradients of oxygen and sulfide , with Arctic96BD-19 most prevalent in oxygenated waters and SUP05 most prevalent in anoxic or anoxic/sulfidic waters ( Wright et al . , 2012 ) . Niche partitioning between SUP05 and Arctic96BD-19 is driven by complementary modes of carbon and energy metabolism that harness alternative terminal electron acceptors . While both Arctic96BD-19 and SUP05 use reduced sulfur compounds as electron donors to drive inorganic carbon fixation , SUP05 manifests a more versatile energy metabolism linking carbon , nitrogen , and sulfur cycling within OMZ and hydrothermal vent waters ( Canfield et al . , 2010; Zaikova et al . , 2010; Swan et al . , 2011; Stewart et al . , 2012; Anantharaman et al . , 2013; Mattes et al . , 2013; Anantharaman et al . , 2014; Hawley et al . , 2014 ) . Ocean viruses , predominantly investigated in the sunlit or photic zone , are abundant , dynamic , and diverse ( Suttle , 2005 ) with growing evidence for direct roles in metabolic reprogramming of microbial photosynthesis , central carbon metabolism , and sulfur cycling ( Mann et al . , 2003; Lindell et al . , 2005; Clokie et al . , 2006; Breitbart et al . , 2007; Dammeyer et al . , 2008; Sharon et al . , 2009 , 2011; Thompson et al . , 2011; Hurwitz et al . , 2013 ) . Preliminary studies suggest that similar patterns are emerging in OMZ waters . In the Eastern Tropical South Pacific , a metagenomic survey revealed specific viral populations endemic to OMZ waters ( Cassman et al . , 2012 ) . Consistent with most viral metagenome surveys , approximately 3% of sequences were affiliated with functionally annotated genes in public databases . From a nitrogen and sulfur cycling perspective , viromes from the oxycline contained genes encoding components of nitric oxide synthase , nitrate and nitrite ammonification , and ammonia assimilation pathways as well as inorganic sulfur assimilation ( Cassman et al . , 2012 ) . In anoxic waters , viromes contained genes encoding components of denitrification , nitrate and nitrite ammonification , and ammonia assimilation pathways as well as sulfate reduction , thioredoxin-disulfide reductase , and inorganic sulfur assimilation ( Cassman et al . , 2012 ) . More recently , metagenomic analyses of hydrothermal vent plume microbial communities dominated by SUP05 bacteria-enabled phage genome assemblies presumed to infect SUP05 ( Anantharaman et al . , 2014 ) . Consistent with viruses encoding auxiliary metabolic genes ( AMGs , Breitbart et al . , 2007 ) enabling viral reprogramming of microbial metabolic pathways ( Lindell et al . , 2005; Thompson et al . , 2011 ) , putative SUP05 phage contained genes encoding reverse dissimilatory sulfite reductase A and C positing a role for viruses in modulating the marine sulfur cycle ( Anantharaman et al . , 2014 ) . Given that SUP05 and Arctic96BD-19 play key roles in OMZ ecology and biogeochemistry , we designed an approach to target SUP05-associated viruses in a model OMZ ecosystem , Saanich Inlet a seasonally anoxic fjord on the coast of Vancouver Island , British Columbia , Canada . We obtained a SUP05 single-cell genomic data set spanning defined redox gradients in the Saanich Inlet water column , identified SUP05-associated viruses infecting SAGs , and used resulting virus–host pairs as recruitment platforms to estimate viral diversity , activity , dispersion , and potential impact on SUP05 population dynamics and metabolic capacity . The resulting data sets open an unprecedented window on uncultivated virus–host dynamics in OMZs and provide an analytical approach extensible to other natural or engineered ecosystems . 
Cilia/flagella are assembled and maintained by the process of intraflagellar transport ( IFT ) , a highly conserved mechanism involving more than 20 IFT proteins . However , the functions of individual IFT proteins are mostly unclear . To help address this issue , we focused on a putative IFT protein TTC26/DYF13 . Using live imaging and biochemical approaches we show that TTC26/DYF13 is an IFT complex B protein in mammalian cells and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii . Knockdown of TTC26/DYF13 in zebrafish embryos or mutation of TTC26/DYF13 in C . reinhardtii , produced short cilia with abnormal motility . Surprisingly , IFT particle assembly and speed were normal in dyf13 mutant flagella , unlike in other IFT complex B mutants . Proteomic and biochemical analyses indicated a particular set of proteins involved in motility was specifically depleted in the dyf13 mutant . These results support the concept that different IFT proteins are responsible for different cargo subsets , providing a possible explanation for the complexity of the IFT machinery .  Cilia and flagella are hair-like microtubule-based organelles , which protrude from the cell surface . Cilia and flagella are basically similar structures and are present in organisms as diverse as single-celled eukaryotes and humans . Cilia have two major physiological functions . One function is producing a driving force for locomotion or making fluid flow ( Ostrowski et al . , 2011; Vincensini et al . , 2011 ) . The other function is sensing extracellular signals and environments , such as hedgehog signaling and fluid flow ( Goetz and Anderson , 2010; Drummond , 2012 ) . Because these ciliary functions are important for development and physiology , defects in cilia structure or function cause multiple human diseases ( ciliopathies ) , such as primary ciliary dyskinesia , polycystic kidney disease , Bardet–Biedl syndrome , Meckel–Gruber syndrome , and Joubert syndrome ( Badano et al . , 2006; Tobin and Beales , 2009; Hildebrandt et al . , 2011 ) . Despite the importance of cilia , the mechanisms that assemble such complex structures are not fully understood . The assembly and maintenance of cilia are known to be dependent on intraflagellar transport ( IFT ) , an active transport process within cilia mediated by a bi-directional movement of multiprotein complexes , known as IFT particles , along the ciliary axoneme ( Kozminski et al . , 1993; Rosenbaum and Witman , 2002; Pedersen et al . , 2008; Scholey , 2008; Ishikawa and Marshall , 2011 ) . IFT complex movement is propelled by motor proteins , kinesin-2 , and cytoplasmic dynein 2 , which move toward the plus and minus ends of microtubules , respectively . Because proteins cannot be synthesized within the cilium , IFT is thought to be needed to carry ciliary components into cilia , by docking the cargo proteins onto the IFT complexes so that the cargo is carried along by the active movement of the complexes ( Piperno and Mead , 1997; Qin et al . , 2004; Hao et al . , 2011 ) . IFT complexes are composed of more than 20 proteins and motor proteins and can be separated biochemically and functionally into two subcomplexes , IFT complexes A and B ( Cole et al . , 1998 ) . Why is the IFT system so complex ? It is known that IFT complex B contributes to anterograde IFT with kinesin , and IFT complex A contributes to retrograde IFT with dynein . However , the functions of individual IFT proteins are mostly unclear . Because depletion of individual IFT complex proteins reduces the assembly of IFT particles and generally inhibits normal ciliogenesis or changes the morphology of the cilium ( Pazour et al . , 2000; Brazelton et al . , 2001; Deane et al . , 2001; Tran et al . , 2008; Mill et al . , 2011 ) , it has been difficult to determine whether individual IFT proteins have specific functions other than IFT particle assembly . Specific functions of only a few IFT proteins have been identified . For example , IFT25 is important in transporting hedgehog signals , but is not required for cilia assembly ( Keady et al . , 2012 ) . IFT46 is required for transport of outer dynein arms into flagella ( Hou et al . , 2007; Ahmed et al . , 2008 ) . IFT70/Fleer/DYF1 is involved in polyglutamylation of axonemal tubulin ( Pathak et al . , 2007; Dave et al . , 2009 ) . IFT172 contributes transition between anterograde and retrograde IFT at the tip of flagella ( Pedersen et al . , 2005 ) . A recent study has demonstrated that the N-terminal parts of IFT74 and IFT81 form a tubulin-binding module ( Bhogaraju et al . , 2013 ) . It is thus emerging that distinct IFT proteins may play distinct roles in transporting different sets of cargos in order to support different cilia functions; however , the cargo transport role of IFT proteins has not been restricted to testing individual candidate cargoes and has not employed systematic proteomic analyses . In this study , we focused on TTC26/DYF13 , which was identified in our proteomic analysis of mouse primary cilia ( Ishikawa et al . , 2012 ) , as well as in other systematic studies of cilia ( Ostrowski et al . , 2002; Avidor-Reiss et al . , 2004; Li et al . , 2004; Blacque et al . , 2005; Efimenko et al . , 2005; Stolc et al . , 2005; Liu et al . , 2007; Arnaiz et al . , 2009 ) . TTC26 is a homologue of Caenorhabditis elegans DYF-13 ( Blacque et al . , 2005 ) and Trypanosoma brucei PIFTC3 ( Absalon et al . , 2008; Franklin and Ullu , 2010 ) . The Dyf ( dye-filling defective ) phenotype reflects a defect in ciliary assembly in C . elegans dyf-13 mutants , and previous reports suggested that TTC26/DYF13 is a putative IFT protein ( Blacque et al . , 2005; Absalon et al . , 2008; Follit et al . , 2009; Franklin and Ullu , 2010 ) . TTC26 knockdown has been reported to cause defects in the zebrafish retina and pronephros consistent with a ciliary defect ( Zhang et al . , 2012 ) . In C . elegans , DYF-13 might be required to modulate the activation of kinesin-2 by docking this motor onto the IFT complex B ( Ou et al . , 2005 , 2007 ) , but the exact function of the protein is still unknown . To clarify the function of TTC26 , we analyzed TTC26/DYF13 in mammalian cultured cells , zebrafish , and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii . Our results show that GFP-fused TTC26 moved bi-directionally along the length of cilia in mammalian cells just like other IFT proteins . TTC26/DYF13 was biochemically co-purified with other IFT complex B proteins in mammalian cells and in C . reinhardtii , demonstrating that TTC26/DYF13 is indeed an IFT complex B protein . However , unlike other complex B proteins , a deletion mutant of dyf13 in C . reinhardtii still has flagella , indicating that TTC26/DYF13 is not required for ciliogenesis per se . However , the flagella are slightly shorter with pronounced motility defects . Similar phenotypes were observed in zebrafish cilia when ttc26 was depleted . Although IFT particle movement seems normal in dyf13 mutant flagella , specific inner dynein arm components were reduced in flagella of dyf13 mutants , indicating a specific role for TTC26/DYF13 in transport of a subset of ciliary proteins . Comparative proteomic analysis of the flagellar proteins in the dyf13 mutant supports a specific function for TTC26/DYF13 in transporting a subset of cargo proteins involved in the machinery of flagellar motility . Therefore , unlike many other IFT proteins , TTC26/DYF13 is not required for ciliogenesis nor for assembly or movement of the IFT particle per se , but rather plays a specialized role in transporting a specific set of motility-related ciliary proteins into cilia/flagella . 
Lymphatic invasion and lymph node metastasis correlate with poor clinical outcome in melanoma . However , the mechanisms of lymphatic dissemination in distant metastasis remain incompletely understood . We show here that exposure of expansively growing human WM852 melanoma cells , but not singly invasive Bowes cells , to lymphatic endothelial cells ( LEC ) in 3D co-culture facilitates melanoma distant organ metastasis in mice . To dissect the underlying molecular mechanisms , we established LEC co-cultures with different melanoma cells originating from primary tumors or metastases . Notably , the expansively growing metastatic melanoma cells adopted an invasively sprouting phenotype in 3D matrix that was dependent on MMP14 , Notch3 and β1-integrin . Unexpectedly , MMP14 was necessary for LEC-induced Notch3 induction and coincident β1-integrin activation . Moreover , MMP14 and Notch3 were required for LEC-mediated metastasis of zebrafish xenografts . This study uncovers a unique mechanism whereby LEC contact promotes melanoma metastasis by inducing a reversible switch from 3D growth to invasively sprouting cell phenotype .  Distant organ metastasis requires that the tumor cells gain access into the hematogenous circulation ( Lambert et al . , 2017 ) . The metastatic dissemination of cancer cells is expedited by molecular changes promoting the ability of cancer cells to invade across the surrounding extracellular matrices ( ECM ) and into the lumen of lymphatic or blood vessels . In order to survive in circulation as well as extravasate and colonize the distant organ sites the cancer cells need to survive a variety of stresses such as hemodynamic shear forces , trapping to vascular beds and ROS , and gain the ability to invasively grow at the new tissue microenvironment ( Piskounova et al . , 2015; Strilic and Offermanns , 2017 ) . Many of these activities have been found to be enhanced in tumor cell clusters relative to singly invading tumor cells . The local microenvironment including the ECM and cell-non-autonomous interactions between cancer cells and stromal cells play a vital role in metastasis . In addition to providing a direct route for dissemination , the tumor lymphatics have been proposed to directly modulate the metastatic cascade through mechanisms that have remained elusive ( Alitalo and Detmar , 2012 ) . Clinical observations of satellite melanoma tumors growing between the primary tumor and draining lymph nodes have suggested that the surrounding lymphatic endothelium serves as a protective microenvironment for the survival of incipient metastatic cells ( Meier et al . , 2002 ) . In support of this hypothesis , over the last few years it has become increasingly clear that lymphatic endothelial cells ( LECs ) in fact actively interact with the surrounding cells in the tissue , thus regulating both physiological and pathological processes including tumor progression and metastasis . Both paracrine communication and direct cell-cell interactions between tumor cells and the associated lymphatics have been shown to drive tumor progression and dissemination . For example , chemokine receptor-ligand interactions between melanoma and LECs drive chemotaxis of tumor cells towards the lymphatics ( Cabioglu et al . , 2005; Das et al . , 2013; Shields et al . , 2007 ) . Alternatively , tumor cells secrete factors like lipoxygenase , which can induce downregulation of the endothelial surface molecules and loosening of the LEC junctions in vitro ( Kerjaschki et al . , 2011 ) . In this study , we set to investigate how the LECs in the tumor microenvironment affect the metastatic melanoma cell phenotype . To this end , we implemented 2D- and 3D melanoma-LEC co-culture models , which enable a systematic analysis of the molecular crosstalk between the tumor cells and the lymphatic endothelium . We found that the interaction of melanoma cells with LECs induced matrix-metalloproteinase-14 ( MMP14 , also known as MT1-MMP ) -dependent Notch3 and β1-integrin activation in the expansively growing metastatic melanoma cells , leading to invasive sprouting of cells in 3D matrices . Importantly , the interaction of these melanoma cells with LECs led to significantly increased metastasis of melanoma xenografts in vivo , which was dependent on MMP14 and Notch3 . Thus , the crosstalk with LECs promotes melanoma metastasis by inducing a reversible switch to invasively sprouting melanoma cells . 
MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are conserved noncoding RNAs that function as posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression . miR-9 is one of the most abundant miRNAs in the brain . Although the function of miR-9 has been well characterized in neural progenitors , its role in dendritic and synaptic development remains largely unknown . In order to target miR-9 in vivo , we developed a transgenic miRNA sponge mouse line allowing conditional inactivation of the miR-9 family in a spatio-temporal-controlled manner . Using this novel approach , we found that miR-9 controls dendritic growth and synaptic transmission in vivo . Furthermore , we demonstrate that miR-9-mediated downregulation of the transcriptional repressor REST is essential for proper dendritic growth .  Early neuronal development consists of a stereotypic progression of events involving neurite extension , axonal polarization and growth , dendritic arborization , and synaptic formation ( Urbanska et al . , 2008; Barnes and Polleux , 2009; Caceres et al . , 2012 ) . Dendrites are the main site of information input into neurons . The architecture of the dendritic tree and the targeting of dendrites into appropriate territories critically shape the input properties of neurons and are therefore of profound importance for the establishment of neuronal networks ( London and Hausser , 2005; Mumm et al . , 2006; Parrish et al . , 2007; Spruston , 2008 ) . The most relevant synaptic specialization of dendrites is dendritic spines . These actin-rich , structurally plastic protrusions represent the major sites of excitatory synaptic contact ( Bonhoeffer and Yuste , 2002; Hering and Sheng , 2001 ) . The development of both , dendrites and spines , represents a multistep process influenced by external signals and intrinsic genetic programs ( Jan and Jan , 2003; Wong and Ghosh , 2002 ) . Emerging data suggest that specific miRNAs exert critical regulatory functions during neuronal differentiation by controlling developmental gene expression programs driving dendritic and spine maturation ( Schratt et al . , 2006; Fiore et al . , 2009; Parrish et al . , 2009; Magill et al . , 2010 ) . MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) have arisen as a powerful class of conserved noncoding RNAs regulating gene expression . They are particularly enriched in the nervous system where they have been shown to influence neuronal development and function ( Giraldez et al . , 2005; Schratt et al . , 2006; Han et al . , 2013 ) . Importantly , miR-9 is one of the most abundant miRNAs in the developing and adult brain ( Lagos-Quintana et al . , 2002; Krichevsky et al . , 2003 ) . In mammals , miR-9 precursors are encoded by three genes , miR-9-1 , miR-9-2 , and miR-9-3 , located in different chromosomes . After processing , these paralogous transcripts give rise to a unique mature miR-9 . Although the function of miR-9 is well established in neural precursors ( Leucht et al . , 2008; Zhao et al . , 2009; Delaloy et al . , 2010; Bonev et al . , 2011; Coolen et al . , 2012 ) , its role in differentiated neurons is largely unknown . This is surprising since miR-9 levels are higher in mature neurons than in neural precursors ( Liu et al . , 2012 ) , suggesting that important biological processes beyond proliferation or specification are regulated by miR-9 . Recently , a role for miR-9 in axonal extension and branching has been described ( Dajas-Bailador et al . , 2012 ) , indicating the importance of miR-9 in the establishment of neuronal networks . However , the involvement of this microRNA in the later stages of neuronal development remains unexplored . In this study , we aimed to characterize a potential role for miR-9 in dendritic and spine development in vivo . In order to efficiently knock-down miR-9 in a living animal , we employed miRNA sponges as a long-lasting miRNA inhibition strategy . miRNA sponges are transcripts that carry several in tandem copies of a sequence complementary to the miRNA of interest in their 3′UTRs ( Ebert et al . , 2007 ) . When expressed at high levels , miRNA sponges act as specific competitive inhibitors by binding and sequestering the miRNA of interest . In addition , miRNA sponges can be used to monitor miRNA activity when expressed together in the same transcript with a fluorescent protein gene , which is downregulated upon the binding of the miRNA ( Ebert et al . , 2007 ) . Analysis of the genomic organization or miRNA genes , revealed that approximately 50% of all mammalian miRNAs reside within either protein coding genes or long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) genes ( Lagos-Quintana et al . , 2001; Rodriguez et al . , 2004 ) . In addition , a large proportion of microRNA genes from different families are clustered and expressed as polycistronic transcripts ( Olena and Patton , 2010 ) . Therefore , it is a major challenge to develop KO models for miRNA genes , since the targeted deletion of a miRNA might affect overlapping protein-coding or lncRNA genes , or alter the expression of neighbor miRNAs , clustered in the same genomic region . Furthermore , many miRNAs have seed family members encoded at multiple distant loci , which requires that multiple genes have to be simultaneously knocked-out to obtain full ablation and avoid gene compensations based on functional redundancy . These obstacles severely limit the use of conditional targeting strategies , usually based on the Cre-loxP system , for the study of miRNA function . Strategies based on the use of miRNA sponges as dominant negative genetic tools , can overcome the limitations presented by miRNA-gene-KO approaches . Sponges act in trans without interfering with the expression of other genes that could localize with the gene that expresses the miRNA of interest . Moreover , a single sponge transgene allows the simultaneous silencing of ‘seed’ sequence redundant microRNAs encoded at distant loci . Here , we describe for the first time a conditional transgenic sponge mouse model . We derived two different strains for in vivo analysis: ( i ) a reporter mouse line to monitor miR-9 activity with single-cell resolution and ( ii ) a line for miR-9 loss-of-function studies . Using the latter , we revealed a novel developmental role of miR-9 in the postmitotic differentiation of neurons , as a key regulator of dendritic growth and synaptic transmission in vivo . Furthermore , we show that regulation of the transcriptional repressor REST by miR-9 is essential for normal dendritic maturation . 
Social visual engagement difficulties are hallmark early signs of autism ( ASD ) and are easily quantified using eye tracking methods . However , it is unclear how these difficulties are linked to atypical early functional brain organization in ASD . With resting state fMRI data in a large sample of ASD toddlers and other non-ASD comparison groups , we find ASD-related functional hypoconnnectivity between ‘social brain’ circuitry such as the default mode network ( DMN ) and visual and attention networks . An eye tracking-identified ASD subtype with pronounced early social visual engagement difficulties ( GeoPref ASD ) is characterized by marked DMN-occipito-temporal cortex ( OTC ) hypoconnectivity . Increased DMN-OTC hypoconnectivity is also related to increased severity of social-communication difficulties , but only in GeoPref ASD . Early and pronounced social-visual circuit hypoconnectivity is a key underlying neurobiological feature describing GeoPref ASD and may be critical for future social-communicative development and represent new treatment targets for early intervention in these individuals .  Social visual engagement difficulties , defined as lack of preference for social stimuli often combined with a strong preference for and attention towards non-social stimuli ( Dawson et al . , 1998; Dawson et al . , 2004; Klin et al . , 2015; Chawarska et al . , 2013; Falck-Ytter et al . , 2013; Klin et al . , 2009; Nakano et al . , 2010; Shic et al . , 2011; von Hofsten et al . , 2009; Pierce et al . , 2011a; Pierce et al . , 2016a; Jones and Klin , 2013; Falck-Ytter et al . , 2018 ) , are key early developmental features of autism spectrum disorders ( ASD ) . These difficulties are central in early ASD screening and diagnostic tools ( Lord et al . , 2000; Pierce et al . , 2011b; Robins et al . , 2001 ) . A child’s preferences and attention early in life can potentially have large impact on future development and outcome ( Klin et al . , 2015 ) . Reduced social visual engagement behaviors actively select and/or neglect specific types of information from the environment as input to the developing brain . A continual stream of atypical non-social input due to reduced social visual engagement in ASD may have detrimental impact on experience-expectant and experience-dependent processes ( Greenough et al . , 1987; Holtmaat and Svoboda , 2009; Huttenlocher , 2002 ) that help to sculpt functional specialization and development in the social brain ( Klin et al . , 2015; Klin et al . , 2003; Mundy et al . , 2009; Johnson et al . , 2015; Johnson , 2017 ) . These features are also highly relevant for early intervention . Many early interventions that show success for some individuals ( Bacon et al . , 2014; Dawson et al . , 2010; Kasari et al . , 2006; Pickles et al . , 2016 ) hinge critically upon the idea of changing this attribute of early ASD development . The hope is that early intervention will increase engagement between the child and the social world and enable experience-dependent neuroplasticity to divert a child towards more typical developmental trajectories ( Dawson , 2008 ) . Eye tracking studies of children and adults with ASD have been central in quantifying deficits in social visual engagement ( Klin et al . , 2009; Nakano et al . , 2010; Shic et al . , 2011; von Hofsten et al . , 2009; Pierce et al . , 2011a; Pierce et al . , 2016a; Jones and Klin , 2013; Falck-Ytter et al . , 2018 ) . Nonetheless , considerable heterogeneity exists across ASD individuals and the early-age neural bases explaining such features and their developmental variability are not well understood ( Chita-Tegmark , 2016; Guillon et al . , 2014 ) . Disentangling early-age heterogeneity is the foundation for making significant progress towards the goals of stratified psychiatry and precision medicine ( Collins and Varmus , 2015; Kapur et al . , 2012; Lai et al . , 2013; Lombardo et al . , 2019 ) for ASD and is therefore one of the biggest challenges in the field . Attempts to identify strong neural underpinnings behind ASD are hindered by mixing potentially different ASD subtypes with different biology ( Lombardo et al . , 2015; Lombardo et al . , 2018a ) . Furthermore , the clinical relevance of parsing heterogeneity into discrete subtypes is also highly salient - not all individuals take the same developmental path or have similar outcomes ( Lord et al . , 2015 ) and individuals may vary considerably in responsiveness to early intervention ( Bacon et al . , 2014 ) . We recently discovered ( Pierce et al . , 2011a ) and then replicated ( Pierce et al . , 2016a ) the finding of one such clinically relevant subtype with marked lack of early social visual engagement . This subtype can be identified and the deficit objectively quantified with a novel eye tracking preferential looking paradigm , the GeoPref Test ( Figure 1A ) . The paradigm displays dynamic non-social colorful geometric patterns side-by-side with social images of happy children in motion . A subset of toddlers comprising around 20% of the ASD population , spend less than 30% of task time looking at social displays and instead prefer to attend to geometric patterns 70–100% of the task time . This degree of marked lack of social visual engagement is seldom seen in non-ASD comparison groups , displaying 98% specificity ( Pierce et al . , 2016a ) . Thus , this unique subtype of ASD toddlers , referred to as ‘GeoPref ASD’ , displays a specific and extreme lack of preference for socially compelling stimuli . GeoPref ASD was originally identified in early screening population-based samples that have high generalizability across the ASD spectrum ( Pierce et al . , 2011a ) . In the largest eye tracking study of ASD to date ( Pierce et al . , 2016a ) , we replicated in a large independent sample ( n = 334 ) the same ASD subtype using the original cutoffs derived in our first discovery on this topic ( Pierce et al . , 2011a ) . GeoPref ASD toddlers are also more severe on a variety of other clinical behavioral measures , indicating that this subtype is highly clinically relevant beyond social visual engagement ( Pierce et al . , 2016a ) . The GeoPref Test has high test-retest reliability ( Pierce et al . , 2016a ) and is simple , fast , and easy to implement , making it a robust behavioral assay for identification of a clinically highly relevant early ASD subtype . In the current work , we aimed to identify how intrinsic functional connectivity between neural circuits , as measured by resting state fMRI ( rsfMRI ) , is affected in early ASD development and whether heterogeneity in early social visual engagement is a key factor explaining such connectivity differences . Several networks were examined that have high relevance for early social visual engagement . Primary visual cortex , visual association cortices , and networks involved in attentional or salience processing are of high relevance , given their importance in hierarchical processing of features from social visual stimuli ( Haxby et al . , 2001; Kriegeskorte et al . , 2008; Uddin et al . , 2013; Mottron et al . , 2006; Felleman and Van Essen , 1991; Yang et al . , 2015 ) . Subcortical areas such as the amygdala and ventral striatum are also of relevance given theories about social motivation as a key driver of social engagement difficulties in autism ( Chevallier et al . , 2012; Mosconi et al . , 2009; Elison et al . , 2013 ) . A large-scale network , the default mode network , is also key since this network is one of the primary networks of the ‘social brain’ involved in high-level social-cognitive and social-communicative processing ( e . g . , mentalizing , joint attention ) ( Lombardo et al . , 2010a; Redcay et al . , 2013; Van Overwalle , 2009; Schurz et al . , 2014; Nummenmaa and Calder , 2009; Eggebrecht et al . , 2017; Alcalá-López et al . , 2018; Redcay and Schilbach , 2019; Schilbach et al . , 2008 ) . We analyzed rsfMRI data in one of the largest and youngest samples of ASD to date and compare ASD to several non-ASD comparison groups – typically developing ( TD ) toddlers , toddlers with language or general developmental delay ( LD/DD ) and TD toddlers with an older ASD sibling ( TD ASDSib ) . We also examined how connectivity differences may be better modeled by taking into account heterogeneity in early social visual engagement . Based on prior work theorizing altered connectivity between high-level social-cognitive networks in frontal cortex and posterior networks involved in sensation , perception and attention ( Courchesne and Pierce , 2005 ) , we hypothesized that there may be atypical and heterogeneous functional connectivity between higher-level social brain networks such as the default mode network ( DMN ) and posterior lower-level networks that are integral for visual perception and attention . We further hypothesized that GeoPref ASD toddlers may display the most extreme effects on functional connectivity . Finally , to test the utility of our ASD subtype for predicting individual differences in social-communication symptomatology , we predicted that robust relationships between functional connectivity and social-communication behavior would be apparent only within the GeoPref ASD subtype . 
Virtually all species of coelomate animals contain blood cells that display a division of labor necessary for homeostasis . This functional partition depends upon the balance between proliferation and differentiation mostly accomplished in the hematopoietic organs . In Drosophila melanogaster , the lymph gland produces plasmatocytes and crystal cells that are not released until pupariation . Yet , throughout larval development , both hemocyte types increase in numbers . Mature plasmatocytes can proliferate but it is not known if crystal cell numbers increase by self-renewal or by de novo differentiation . We show that new crystal cells in third instar larvae originate through a Notch-dependent process of plasmatocyte transdifferentiation . This process occurs in the sessile clusters and is contingent upon the integrity of these structures . The existence of this hematopoietic tissue , relying on structure-dependent signaling events to promote blood homeostasis , creates a new paradigm for addressing outstanding questions in Drosophila hematopoiesis and establishing further parallels with vertebrate systems .  In insects , the functions of hemocytes ( blood cells ) are very diverse and include phagocytosis , extracellular matrix deposition , AMP production , encapsulation , and melanization . Similarly to what happens in vertebrates , the different functions performed by insect hemocytes are , to some degree , compartmentalized into different cell types ( Honti et al . , 2014 ) . Some mature blood cells retain the ability to divide when in circulation , but the majority of blood cell proliferation and differentiation occurs in the hematopoietic organs ( Grigorian and Hartenstein , 2013 ) . These organs provide the correct cellular and molecular environment for the control of cell proliferation and differentiation , namely in the so-called stem cell niches ( Koch and Radtke , 2007; Martinez-Agosto et al . , 2007 ) . Thus , the study of hematopoietic organs structure and function is essential to understand how different mature blood cells arise and how their absolute and relative numbers are controlled . In Drosophila melanogaster , embryonic hematopoiesis produces two different types of mature hemocytes: plasmatocytes and crystal cells . Plasmatocytes are phagocytic cells often functionally compared to vertebrate macrophages ( Evans et al . , 2003 ) . Crystal cells are non-phagocytic cells known to produce prophenoloxidase , an essential component of the melanization cascade ( Binggeli et al . , 2014 ) . Both plasmatocytes and crystal cells generated during embryogenesis persist into larval stages . Hemocytes in the larva can be found in circulation but the majority of them are attached to the cuticular epidermis as sessile cells ( Lanot et al . , 2001; Kurucz et al . , 2007b; Makhijani et al . , 2011 ) . Hemocytes attached to the epidermis are not randomly dispersed but form stereotypical clusters of cells in every segment of the larva ( Zettervall et al . , 2004; Makhijani et al . , 2011 ) indicating that some signal must direct hemocytes to these locations . In fact , it has been recently shown that peripheral nervous system ( PNS ) neurons attract hemocytes and provide unknown trophic molecules for their survival ( Makhijani et al . , 2011 ) . The larva also possesses a hematopoietic organ , the lymph gland , where plasmatocytes and crystal cells differentiate from prohemocytes ( Crozatier and Meister , 2007 ) . Prohemocytes residing in the medullary zone of the lymph gland are instructed by cells from the posterior signaling center ( PSC ) to maintain their quiescent state or to differentiate into mature plasmatocytes or crystal cells ( Crozatier et al . , 2004; Mandal et al . , 2007 ) . During the differentiation process , it has been suggested that cells migrate and occupy the most cortical zone of the lymph gland ( Jung et al . , 2005; Krzemien et al . , 2010b ) . An essential aspect of the Drosophila larval hematopoiesis is that hemocytes produced in the lymph gland do not disperse from the organ until pupariation or upon injury such as parasitoid wasp egg infection ( Holz et al . , 2003; Honti et al . , 2010 ) . Hence , in homeostatic conditions , differentiated hemocytes in the lymph gland do not contribute to the circulating and sessile hemocyte population . Nonetheless , the hemocyte population found in circulation and in sessile patches expands throughout larval development . Plasmatocytes are mitotically active cells ( Rizki , 1957; Lanot et al . , 2001 ) expanding during larval development by self renewal ( Makhijani et al . , 2011 ) . On the other hand , all reports thus far concur in that mature crystal cells do not divide during larval stages ( Krzemien et al . , 2010b; Lanot et al . , 2001; Rizki , 1957 ) , although they have been shown to proliferate during embryogenesis ( Lebestky et al . , 2000 ) . Further characterization of a yet unknown source and undetermined mechanism of crystal cell differentiation is required to understand how its number increases during larval development . Although little is known on how crystal cells are formed outside the lymph gland , it has been shown that Notch signaling is necessary to form these cells ( Duvic et al . , 2002; Lebestky et al . , 2003 ) . In the lymph gland , the role of Notch signaling in crystal cell formation is cell autonomous ( Mukherjee et al . , 2011 ) . Notch activation is sufficient in hemocytes to induce the expression of lozenge , the first known transcription factor in crystal cell development ( Lebestky et al . , 2000 ) . One particularity of Notch signaling is that it requires cell contact since the two known Drosophila Notch ligands , Serrate and Delta , are membrane bound proteins ( Fiúza and Arias , 2007 ) . In the lymph gland , Serrate-positive hemocytes induce neighboring cells to adopt crystal cell fates ( Lebestky et al . , 2003; Mukherjee et al . , 2011; Ferguson & Martinez-agosto 2014 ) . Outside the lymph gland , only in sessile clusters may we observe hemocytes establishing stable cell–cell contacts between them ( Lanot et al . , 2001 ) . In fact , hemocytes in clusters are densely packed and linked through interdigitations ( Lanot et al . , 2001 ) , particularly in the last two abdominal larval segments , the putative posterior hematopoietic tissue ( PHT ) ( Kurucz et al . , 2007 ) . Indeed , in recent years , the idea that hematopoietic properties must reside outside of the lymph gland has been put forward explicitly by the Andó laboratory ( Márkus et al . , 2009 ) . Firstly , in a descriptive endeavor by Kurucz et al . ( 2007 ) where an operational posterior hematopoietic tissue ( PHT ) consisting of the sessile hemocyte clusters in the last two abdominal segments is postulated; and later in a set of experiments showing that hemocytes taken from these clusters have the ability to differentiate into lamellocytes upon transfer to a different larva ( Márkus et al . , 2009; Honti et al . , 2010 ) . Importantly , sessile hemocytes in clusters constitute the biggest compartment of hemocytes in the larva ( Lanot et al . , 2001; Makhijani et al . , 2011 ) , contained within epidermal and muscle tissue in a structure that has been called hematopoietic pockets ( Makhijani et al . , 2011 ) . Moreover , the sessile plasmatocytes in such clusters have a higher division rate than those in circulation ( Makhijani et al . , 2011 ) . However , to consider the hemocyte clusters as a bona fide hematopoietic tissue , evidence is needed that their structure is necessary to control cell proliferation and/or cell fate decisions . In this study , we directly test the hypothesis that the hemocyte clusters constitute a hematopoietic tissue by addressing systematically the following questions: ( i ) are crystal cells differentiating in these clusters ? ( ii ) is the structure/architecture of these clusters necessary for this function ? and ( iii ) what is the role of the Notch pathway in this hematopoietic role ? 
Aneuploidy is linked to myriad diseases but also facilitates organismal evolution . It remains unclear how cells overcome the deleterious effects of aneuploidy until new phenotypes evolve . Although laboratory strains are extremely sensitive to aneuploidy , we show here that aneuploidy is common in wild yeast isolates , which show lower-than-expected expression at many amplified genes . We generated diploid strain panels in which cells carried two , three , or four copies of the affected chromosomes , to show that gene-dosage compensation functions at 10–30% of amplified genes . Genes subject to dosage compensation are under higher expression constraint in wild populations—but they show elevated rates of gene amplification , suggesting that copy-number variation is buffered at these genes . We find that aneuploidy provides a clear ecological advantage to oak strain YPS1009 , by amplifying a causal gene that escapes dosage compensation . Our work presents a model in which dosage compensation buffers gene amplification through aneuploidy to provide a natural , but likely transient , route to rapid phenotypic evolution .  Susumu Ohno proposed over 40 years ago that gene duplication could provide a major force in the evolution of new gene functions , by relaxing constraint on gene sequences and allowing one or both gene copies to evolve ( Ohno , 1970 ) . The genomic era has largely borne out that hypothesis , and many studies have characterized the outcomes of whole and partial genome amplification ( Jaillon et al . , 2009 ) . The immediate consequence of duplication is assumed to be increased expression of the affected genes , and in some cases the increased expression provides a selective advantage ( e . g . , Sandegren and Andersson , 2009; Chang et al . , 2013; Edi et al . , 2014 ) . Over longer periods , the relaxed constraint afforded by functional redundancy allows one or both gene copies to evolve ( Ohno , 1970 ) , driving sub- and neo-functionalization ( Lynch and Force , 2000; Lynch et al . , 2001 ) , expression divergence ( Gu et al . , 2004 , 2005; Li et al . , 2005; Wang et al . , 2012 ) , and network rewiring ( Presser et al . , 2008; Freschi et al . , 2011; De Smet and Van de Peer , 2012 ) . Whole and partial chromosome amplification through aneuploidy is frequently observed in laboratory evolution studies and in drug-resistant fungal pathogens ( Hughes et al . , 2000; Dunham et al . , 2002; Selmecki et al . , 2006; Pavelka et al . , 2010; Yona et al . , 2012; Ni et al . , 2013 ) , suggesting that aneuploidy is a rapid route to phenotypic evolution . However , aneuploidy comes with a fitness cost , most famously in cases of human aneuploidies such as Down syndrome ( DS ) ( Antonarakis et al . , 2004 ) . The reasons for aneuploidy toxicity are not entirely clear but may be due to increased expression from genes that are toxic when overexpressed ( Siegel and Amon , 2012 ) . Several studies have used Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model for aneuploidy syndromes , since laboratory strains are extremely sensitive to chromosomal amplification . Laboratory strains with forced aneuploidy are extremely slow growing , regardless of the chromosome amplified ( Torres et al . , 2007; Pavelka et al . , 2010 ) . Transcriptomic and proteomic studies in these strains reported proportionately higher expression from virtually all amplified genes ( Torres et al . , 2007; Pavelka et al . , 2010; Torres et al . , 2010; Sheltzer et al . , 2012 ) , with a handful of exceptions recently identified at the protein level ( Dephoure et al . , 2014 ) . The apparent lack of dosage compensation is consistent with another study by Springer et al . ( 2010 ) , which found that expression at hemizygous genes is not up-regulated to compensate for reduced gene copy . While these studies have generated important results on aneuploidy intolerance in these particular strains , one caveat is that they were all done in laboratory strains , which have lost many features inherent in wild strains ( Kvitek et al . , 2008; Lewis et al . , 2010; Lewis and Gasch , 2012 ) . A remaining question is the extent to which aneuploidy occurs in nature and contributes to phenotypic variation in the wild . Here , we report that chromosomal amplification is common in non-laboratory yeast strains , which are inherently tolerant of aneuploidy and display an active mode of gene-dosage compensation at the transcript level , for specific classes of amplified genes . Strikingly , genes subject to dosage compensation are buffered against copy-number variation ( CNV ) and thus show elevated rates of gene amplification in natural isolates . Our results raise new implications for the role of aneuploidy in phenotypic evolution and the mechanisms cells use to tolerate it . 
Animals detect light using opsin photopigments . Xenopsin , a recently classified subtype of opsin , challenges our views on opsin and photoreceptor evolution . Originally thought to belong to the Gαi-coupled ciliary opsins , xenopsins are now understood to have diverged from ciliary opsins in pre-bilaterian times , but little is known about the cells that deploy these proteins , or if they form a photopigment and drive phototransduction . We characterized xenopsin in a flatworm , Maritigrella crozieri , and found it expressed in ciliary cells of eyes in the larva , and in extraocular cells around the brain in the adult . These extraocular cells house hundreds of cilia in an intra-cellular vacuole ( phaosome ) . Functional assays in human cells show Maritigrella xenopsin drives phototransduction primarily by coupling to Gαi . These findings highlight similarities between xenopsin and c-opsin and reveal a novel type of opsin-expressing cell that , like jawed vertebrate rods , encloses the ciliary membrane within their own plasma membrane .  Light is a key biological stimulus for most animals , and a rich diversity of photosensitive cells has evolved . Depending on the form of their elaborated apical plasma membranes , these cells have been characterized as either ciliary photoreceptors ( CPRs ) or rhabdomeric ( microvillar ) photoreceptors ( RPRs ) ( Eakin , 1982 ) . When rhabdomeric and ciliary photoreceptors coexist in the same organism , one type ( rhabdomeric in most invertebrates , ciliary in vertebrates ) typically dominates in the eyes while the other performs nonvisual functions in the eyes or is present as extraocular photoreceptors ( Arendt et al . , 2004; Yau and Hardie , 2009 ) . Photopigments are responsible for the light-dependent chemical reactions in these cells , and all animal phyla , with the exception of sponges , employ photopigments composed of opsin-class G-protein-coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) coupled with a light-sensitive chromophore ( a retinaldehyde ) ( Nilsson , 2013; Bok et al . , 2017 ) . The initial characterization of opsins in bilaterian animals identified several conserved opsin gene families ( Terakita , 2005 ) , and each family has been associated with distinct photoreceptor cell types and specific downstream G-protein phototransduction cascades ( reviewed in Lamb , 2013 ) . For example , ciliary ( c ) -opsins are expressed in ciliary photoreceptor cells where they typically activate members of the Gαi family ( including Gαi , Gαo and Gαt ) , while rhabdomeric ( r ) -opsins are expressed in rhabdomeric photoreceptors and activate Gαq family members ( Shichida and Matsuyama , 2009 ) . The recent accumulation of sequence data from a taxonomically broad set of animals has , however , revealed a far greater diversity of opsins ( Porter et al . , 2012; Ramirez et al . , 2016; Bok et al . , 2017; Vöcking et al . , 2017 ) , and the ability to localize the mRNA transcripts and proteins of opsins in a diversity of animals has uncovered many new and morphologically divergent photosensitive cell types , both ocular and extraocular ( Vöcking et al . , 2017; Bok et al . , 2017 ) . The recent identification of one novel group of opsins – the xenopsins ( Ramirez et al . , 2016 ) – is leading to a reevaluation of eye and photoreceptor cell type evolution ( Vöcking et al . , 2017 ) . Xenopsins have been found in several lophotrochozoan phyla: molluscs , rotifers , brachiopods , flatworms and an annelid ( Ramirez et al . , 2016; Vöcking et al . , 2017 ) . They share with some ciliary opsins a characteristic c-terminal sequence motif ( NVQ ) and were originally classified as part of the c-opsins ( Passamaneck et al . , 2011; Albertin et al . , 2015; Yoshida et al . , 2015 ) . All recent opsin phylogenies have , however , shown xenopsins to be phylogenetically distinct from c-opsins ( Ramirez et al . , 2016; Bok et al . , 2017; Vöcking et al . , 2017; Quiroga Artigas et al . , 2018 ) and gene structure analysis supports this distinction ( Vöcking et al . , 2017 ) . The relationship between xenopsins ( lophotrochozoan protostome specific ) and c-opsins ( which are found in protostomes and deuterostomes ) suggests that both opsins were present in the last common ancestor of Bilateria , and that xenopsins were subsequently lost in deuterostomes and ecdysozoan protostomes ( Vöcking et al . , 2017 ) . Existing data on the expression of xenopsins are limited to the larval stages of a chiton and a brachiopod . In the brachiopod , xenopsin is expressed in cells with elaborated cilia and shading pigment that is pigmented eyespots ( Passamaneck et al . , 2011 ) , whereas , unusually , in the chiton larva it is co-expressed with r-opsin in cells containing both cilia and microvilli . Some of these cells are supported by pigmented cells so they probably form simple eyes , whereas others lack pigment and cannot act as visual photoreceptors ( Vöcking et al . , 2017 ) . While the presence of xenopsins in cells with elaborated ciliary surfaces and their association with pigmented cells is strongly suggestive of a role for xenopsins in photoreception , this function has not yet been demonstrated . Furthermore , if xenopsins do detect light , the subsequent phototransduction pathway is unknown . Determining these factors , and better understanding the phylogenetic distribution of xenopsins and of the cells in which they are expressed is essential for understanding the evolution of this opsin subtype and of the photoreceptors that use them ( Arendt , 2017 ) . Flatworms ( Platyhelminthes ) are one of the most diverse and biomedically important groups of invertebrates ( Laumer et al . , 2015 ) . Their eyes typically consist of photoreceptors with rhabdomes of microvilli that are associated with pigmented shading cells ( Sopott-Ehlers et al . , 2001 ) and which , in planarian triclad flatworms , have been shown to express rhabdomeric opsin ( Sánchez Alvarado and Newmark , 1999; Pineda et al . , 2000 ) and conserved members of the r-opsin signaling cascade ( e . g . Gαq , Trp channel-encoding genes ) ( Lapan and Reddien , 2012 ) . The presence and nature of ciliary photoreceptors in flatworms is still unclear but the description of xenopsins ( but not c-opsins ) in flatworms ( Vöcking et al . , 2017 ) suggests CPRs may exist . Furthermore , ultrastructural studies have identified cells with elaborated ciliary membranes - putative CPRs ( Sopott-Ehlers , 1991; Lyons , 1972; Kearn , 1993; Rohde and Watson , 1991 ) - but these have not been studied at the molecular level . In larvae of the polyclad Pseudoceros canadensis , ultrastructural studies identified three different types of CPR; the epidermal eyespot – a pigmented epidermal cell with elaborated ciliary membranes ( Lanfranchi et al . , 1981; Eakin and Brandenburger , 1981 ) ; a cerebral eye consisting of a CPR adjacent to RPRs cupped by a supporting pigmented cell ( Eakin and Brandenburger , 1981 ) ; and distinct extraocular cells in the epidermis possessing multiple cilia projecting into an intra-cellular vacuole ( Lacalli , 1983 ) known as a phaosome ( Fournier , 1984 ) . This phaosomal cell type has been found in all classes of flatworm ( except triclads and bothrioplanids ) ( Sopott-Ehlers et al . , 2001; Fournier , 1984 ) , and the distinct morphology led to the suggestion that they are a derived feature of flatworms ( Sopott-Ehlers et al . , 2001 ) . Here we analyze the localization of a xenopsin protein in a polyclad flatworm at two developmental stages; the newly hatched larva and , for the first time , in an adult lophotrochozoan . In the adult we find xenopsin+ , extraocular , ciliary cells and we characterize their distinct ultrastructure , revealing that , like jawed vertebrate rod photoreceptors , they enclose their cilia inside their own plasma membrane . We then carry out the first functional cellular assays on a xenopsin , exploring whether polyclad xenopsin can form a photopigment , and which classes of Gα protein it can couple to ( the first step in phototransduction cascades ) . Together our findings show similarities between xenopsin and c-opsin and provide the first molecular and functional evidence of ciliary photoreceptors in flatworms . 
Spatial and temporal cues are required to specify neuronal diversity , but how these cues are integrated in neural progenitors remains unknown . Drosophila progenitors ( neuroblasts ) are a good model: they are individually identifiable with relevant spatial and temporal transcription factors known . Here we test whether spatial/temporal factors act independently or sequentially in neuroblasts . We used Targeted DamID to identify genomic binding sites of the Hunchback temporal factor in two neuroblasts ( NB5-6 and NB7-4 ) that make different progeny . Hunchback targets were different in each neuroblast , ruling out the independent specification model . Moreover , each neuroblast had distinct open chromatin domains , which correlated with differential Hb-bound loci in each neuroblast . Importantly , the Gsb/Pax3 spatial factor , expressed in NB5-6 but not NB7-4 , had genomic binding sites correlated with open chromatin in NB5-6 , but not NB7-4 . Our data support a model in which early-acting spatial factors like Gsb establish neuroblast-specific open chromatin domains , leading to neuroblast-specific temporal factor binding and the production of different neurons in each neuroblast lineage .  The generation of neuronal diversity in mammals and Drosophila is a multi-step process . The initial step is the production of the neuroectoderm ( ventral in Drosophila , dorsal in mammals ) that gives rise to neural progenitors . In both systems , the neuroectoderm and neural progenitor population acquire regional differences due to the action of Hox genes and spatial patterning genes ( Jessell , 2000 ) . Although spatial patterning generates diversity within the neural progenitor population , it is insufficient to account for the neuronal diversity in the mature nervous system . Expanding neural diversity requires a second step called temporal patterning , where individual neural progenitors produce a sequence of distinct neurons and glia ( Doe , 2017 ) . In both Drosophila and mammals , this process appears to be regulated , in part , by temporal transcription factors ( TTFs ) that are sequentially expressed within individual neural progenitors ( Kohwi and Doe , 2013 ) . Although a great deal is known about how spatial factors generate regional diversity , and much has recently been learned about temporal patterning mechanisms , virtually nothing is known about how spatial factors and TTFs are integrated to specify distinct neuronal identities in spatially distinct progenitor populations . Drosophila is an excellent model system to investigate how spatial and temporal factors are integrated during neurogenesis , due to a deep understanding of neural progenitor ( neuroblast ) lineages , and the molecular mechanisms involved in both spatial and temporal patterning during neurogenesis . The Drosophila neuroectoderm produces a bilateral array of 30 neuroblasts in each segment , named according to their row and columnar position within the two dimensional neuroblast array ( Figure 1A , left ) . Each neuroblast has a unique identity based on its distinct molecular profile and each neuroblast produces a unique and stereotyped family of neurons . Spatial patterning factors that specify neuroblast identity have been characterized , and all of them are transcription factors or signalling pathways with transcription factor effectors . Henceforth we refer to these spatial factors as ‘spatial transcription factors’ or STFs , paralleling the naming of temporal transcription factors as TTFs . The Gooseberry ( Gsb ) Pax-3 family transcription factor is expressed in row 5 neuroblasts; loss of Gsb transforms row 5 neuroblasts into row 3/4 identity , and misexpression of Gsb transforms row 3/4 neuroblasts into row 5 identity . Importantly , transient misexpression of Gsb in the neuroectoderm , prior to neuroblast formation , is sufficient to generate ectopic row 5 neuroblasts , suggesting that neuroblast identity is determined in the neuroectoderm and maintained during the subsequent neuroblast lineage ( Skeath et al . , 1995; Bhat , 1996 ) . Thus , Gsb is one of the best characterized STFs . Similarly , the secreted Wingless ( Wg ) protein is produced by row 5 neuroectoderm , where it is required to specify the adjacent row 4 and 6 neuroblast identity that is maintained in the row 4 and 6 neuroblasts ( Chu-LaGraff and Doe , 1993 ) . Precise inactivation of a temperature-sensitive Wg protein showed that loss of Wg activity in the neuroectoderm resulted in loss of neuroblast identity , whereas inactivation of Wg after neuroblast formation had no effect , showing that transient Wg generates row 4 and 6 neuroblast identity ( Chu-LaGraff and Doe , 1993 ) . In addition , Hedgehog ( Hh ) expression in row 6/7 neuroectoderm is required to specify neuroblast identity in adjacent rows 1/2 ( McDonald and Doe , 1997 ) . Finally , Engrailed expression in the neuroectoderm is required for the proper development of row 6/7 neuroblasts , and transient Engrailed misexpression generates ectopic row 7 neuroblast identity ( Deshpande et al . , 2001 ) . Taken together , these spatial patterning experiments show that neuroblast spatial identity is specified in the neuroectoderm by the transient action of STFs expressed in different neuroblast rows . Spatial patterning does not only generate distinct rows of neuroblasts , but also distinct neuroblast columns . During the first stages of neuroblast formation there are three distinct columns of neuroblasts , each specified by a conserved homeodomain protein . Vnd is expressed in a medial column of neuroectoderm , Ind is expressed in an intermediate column , and Msh ( Flybase: Drop ) is expressed in the lateral column ( Figure 1A , left ) ( Isshiki et al . , 1997; McDonald et al . , 1998; Weiss et al . , 1998 ) . Loss of function and misexpression studies show that each is necessary and partially sufficient for specifying columnar neuroblast identity ( Isshiki et al . , 1997; McDonald et al . , 1998; Weiss et al . , 1998 ) . It is likely that these columnar factors function in the neuroectoderm , like spatial row factors , because they do not persist throughout neuroblast lineages . All three of these STFs have conserved mammalian orthologs with similar medial-lateral expression in the neuroectoderm ( Weiss et al . , 1998 ) . Overall , the combination of row and columnar STFs are likely to generate the observed 30 distinct neuroblast identities . Hox factors provide an additional spatial cue that distinguishes segmental differences in neuroblast identity ( Prokop and Technau , 1994 ) . Whereas spatial patterning generates 30 different neuroblast identities , temporal patterning is required to generate different progeny within each neuroblast lineage . Most neuroblasts sequentially express a series of four TTFs as they divide to generate ganglion mother cell ( GMC ) progeny , and the specific TTF inherited by each GMC determines its identity ( Kohwi and Doe , 2013; Li et al . , 2013; Doe , 2017 ) . Embryonic ventral nerve cord ( VNC ) neuroblasts undergo a TTF cascade that progresses from Hunchback ( Hb; Ikaros zinc finger family ) to Krüppel ( zinc finger family ) to the redundant Nubbin/Pdm2 ( Pdm ) to Castor ( Cas; Casz1 zinc finger family ) ( Figure 1A , middle ) . Other neuroblasts in the larval VNC , brain , and optic lobes undergo a similar TTF cascade to increase neuronal diversity , although the identity of the TTFs differs in each region ( Li et al . , 2013; Doe , 2017 ) . The Hb-Kr-Pdm-Cas TTF cascade has been particularly well-characterized , with each factor being necessary and sufficient to specify the neuronal identity produced during its window of expression ( Isshiki et al . , 2001; Novotny et al . , 2002; Kanai et al . , 2005; Grosskortenhaus et al . , 2006; Tran and Doe , 2008; Kohwi et al . , 2013 ) . Importantly , each TTF specifies a different type of neuron in each neuroblast lineage , showing that spatial identity provides a different context for Hb function in each neuroblast ( Figure 1A , right ) . Understanding this ‘context’ at a mechanistic level is the goal of our experiments below . The role of TTFs is best exemplified by Hb , the first TTF in the cascade . Loss of Hb results in absence of the first-born neuron identities in all neuroblast lineages assayed to date ( 1-1 , 3-1 , 3-5 , 7-1 , 7-3 ) . Conversely , driving prolonged Hb expression in neuroblasts results in ectopic first-born neurons in all lineages tested ( Isshiki et al . , 2001; Novotny et al . , 2002; Kanai et al . , 2005; Kohwi et al . , 2013 ) . For example , prolonged expression of Hb in NB7-1 produces ectopic U1 motor neurons , whereas prolonged expression of Hb in NB7-3 produces ectopic EW1 serotonergic interneurons . Note that these misexpression experiments further confirm the neuroblast-specific effect of Hb , showing that the spatial identity of the neuroblast determines the effect of Hb . Importantly , Hb can induce early-born neuronal identity throughout a ‘competence window’ of ~5 neuroblast divisions ( from embryonic stage 9–12 ) . The length of the competence window is defined by expression of Distal antenna ( Dan ) , a nuclear Pipsqueak domain protein present in all neuroblast nuclei until stage 12 ( about five divisions for most neuroblasts ) ; Dan is downregulated in all neuroblasts at the end of stage 12 , and this closes the Hb competence window ( Kohwi et al . , 2013 ) . Hb can induce first-born neuronal identity at any point during this competence window , showing that Hb binding sites are accessible throughout the competence window; this is important to consider for the experiments described here , where we have restricted our Hb binding and chromatin accessibility profiling experiments to the stage 9–12 competence window in individual neuroblast lineages ( see below ) . It is clear that spatial and temporal cues are integrated to generate lineage-specific neuronal diversity , both in Drosophila embryonic neuroblasts and optic lobe neuroblasts ( Erclik et al . , 2017 ) , and likely in mammalian progenitor lineages . Yet in no case , mammals or Drosophila , is it known how spatial and TTFs are integrated . Here we hypothesise two mechanisms by which this integration could occur . ( 1 ) Independent specification ( Figure 1B ) . In this scenario , spatial and temporal transcription factors bind their genomic targets independently , and the combinatorial actions of these factors and their downstream gene regulatory networks results in unique gene expression and therefore unique neural identities . ( 2 ) Sequential specification ( Figure 1C ) . In this scenario , early expression of STFs in the neuroectoderm ( where they are known to act ) biases the subsequent DNA-binding profile of the later expressed TTFs . This could happen via STFs generating different chromatin landscapes in each neuroblast , or via STFs promoting the persistent expression of TTF cofactors that result in neuroblast-specific TTF DNA-binding . While both scenarios would result in the specification of distinct neural identities in spatially distinct NBs , in the independent specification model , TTF binding will be identical in all neuroblasts whereas in the sequential specification model , TTF binding will occur at different loci in each neuroblast . To discriminate between these models , we sought to determine Hb genomic targets in NB5-6 versus NB7-4 . If independent specification is used , we expect to find similar Hb occupancy in each neuroblast ( Figure 1B ) , whereas if sequential specification is used , we expect to find different Hb genomic binding in each neuroblast ( Figure 1C ) . Our goal was to identify Hb occupancy within the early NB5-6 and NB7-4 lineages during the Hb competence window , when Hb retains the ability to generate ectopic early-born neuronal identities , and thus presumably can still bind its normal genomic targets . To identify Hb occupancy in these two neuroblast lineages , we adapted the previously described Targeted DamID ( TaDa ) method ( Southall et al . , 2013; Marshall et al . , 2016 ) . TaDa relies on an attenuated expression of the DNA adenosine methyltransferase ( Dam ) enzyme ( Figure 1D ) , which binds genomic DNA and methylates adenosine at GATC sites . This covalent DNA mark can be used to determine Dam binding sites , due to the very low level of endogenous DNA methylation in Drosophila . Expression of Dam alone can be used to detect open chromatin ( Aughey et al . , 2018 ) ( Figure 1E ) or Dam can be fused to a transcription factor such as Hb , which provides a read-out of Hb genomic occupancy ( Figure 1F ) . Here we characterize two Gal4 lines that are specific for NB5-6 and NB7-4 lineages in the embryo . We use these lines to obtain NB-specific expression of Dam:Hb ( to identify Hb genomic occupancy ) and Dam alone ( to detect open chromatin ) . We demonstrate that Hb has differential targets in NB5-6 and NB7-4 lineages , which correspond to differentially open chromatin in each lineage . Importantly , our observation that Hb-bound loci specific to NB5-6 have open chromatin , but the same loci in NB7-4 have closed chromatin , shows that Hb is not sufficient to create open chromatin . Rather , Hb binding in each neuroblast is likely restricted to a subset of neuroblast-specific open chromatin domains . In support of this model , the Gsb STF , required to specify NB5-6 but not NB7-4 , shows enriched occupancy at open chromatin and Hb enriched loci in NB5-6 , but not in NB7-4 , consistent with a role for Gsb in generating neuroblast-specific open chromatin organization . Our findings support a sequential specification model in which STFs create neuroblast-specific chromatin organization , leading to neuroblast-specific Hb DNA-binding . 
P2X receptors function by opening a transmembrane pore in response to extracellular ATP . Recent crystal structures solved in apo and ATP-bound states revealed molecular motions of the extracellular domain following agonist binding . However , the mechanism of pore opening still remains controversial . Here we use photo-switchable cross-linkers as ‘molecular tweezers’ to monitor a series of inter-residue distances in the transmembrane domain of the P2X2 receptor during activation . These experimentally based structural constraints combined with computational studies provide high-resolution models of the channel in the open and closed states . We show that the extent of the outer pore expansion is significantly reduced compared to the ATP-bound structure . Our data further reveal that the inner and outer ends of adjacent pore-lining helices come closer during opening , likely through a hinge-bending motion . These results provide new insight into the gating mechanism of P2X receptors and establish a versatile strategy applicable to other membrane proteins .  The family of P2X receptors encompasses seven subtypes in mammals ( termed P2X1-7 ) that are widely expressed in many cells , including neurons ( Khakh and North , 2006 ) . These receptors are trimeric ion channels that switch rapidly between closed and opened conformations in response to extracellular ATP ( Browne et al . , 2010; Jiang et al . , 2013 ) . Once opened , a flow of ions ( sodium , potassium and calcium ) transit through the transmembrane ( TM ) pore and initiates signal transduction . Depending on the P2X subtype , gating is followed by desensitization , a temporary inactivation that terminates the ion flow . ATP-gated P2X receptors are also involved in a wide range of pathological disorders , including chronic and inflammatory pain ( Khakh and North , 2006; Abbracchio et al . , 2009 ) . A detailed understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the gating process is thus of fundamental importance and may open new therapeutic avenues . Recent X-ray structures of the zebrafish P2X4 ( zfP2X4 ) receptor in its apo and ATP-bound states have provided a molecular understanding of how ATP binding triggers channel opening ( Kawate et al . , 2009; Hattori and Gouaux , 2012 ) . There are three interfacial ATP-binding pockets in the extracellular domain ( ECD ) that protrude ~40 Å outside of the membrane . The transmembrane domain ( TMD ) comprises six TM spanning α-helices , two from each subunit termed TM1 and TM2 , which are arranged around the threefold axis of symmetry , with TM1 positioned peripheral to TM2 . The pore-lining TM2 helices are steeply angled nearly 45° from the membrane plane and they form , in the apo state , a gate in the middle of the membrane that is thought to control the flux of ions . For this reason , the apo form is believed to represent a resting , closed state of the receptor ( Kawate et al . , 2009 ) . Structural and functional work has suggested that binding of ATP induces closure of the three interfacial pockets in the ECD that is accompanied by a rearrangement of the subunit–subunit interfaces ( Jiang et al . , 2003; 2010; 2012; Nagaya et al . , 2005; Marquez-Klaka et al . , 2007; Du et al . , 2012; Hattori and Gouaux , 2012; Lorinczi et al . , 2012; Roberts et al . , 2012; Hausmann et al . , 2013; Huang et al . , 2014; Stelmashenko et al . , 2014; Zhao et al . , 2014 ) . As a result , the lower region of the ECD undergoes a flexing motion that pulls apart the outer ends of the six TM helices ( Hattori and Gouaux , 2012 ) . This lateral displacement , in turn , enlarges through an iris-like opening the narrowest part of the channel , creating a wide entryway of 7 Å in diameter , which allows ions to flow through the open pore ( Hattori and Gouaux , 2012 ) . The mechanism of gating based on the crystal structures is largely consistent with previous functional and modeling data obtained on the ECD ( Jiang et al . , 2010; 2012; Du et al . , 2012; Lorinczi et al . , 2012; Roberts et al . , 2012; Hausmann et al . , 2013; Huang et al . , 2014; Stelmashenko et al . , 2014; Zhao et al . , 2014 ) . However , there are areas of discordance between the X-ray structures and the available data at the level of the TM pore . Although the location of the gate ( Samways et al . , 2014 ) , the relative position and gating motion of TM1 and TM2 within the individual subunits ( Li et al . , 2008; Heymann et al . , 2013 ) and the movement of the outer ends of the TM helices ( Li et al . , 2008; 2010; Kracun et al . , 2010; Heymann et al . , 2013; Browne et al . , 2014 ) inferred from experimental data are in qualitative agreement with the crystal structures , there are reasons to question whether the ATP-bound structure provides an accurate blueprint of a native open-channel pore . First , the proposed mechanism of gating implies a great radial outward movement of the TM helices away from the threefold axis , which creates large ‘crevices’ between the TM helices of adjacent subunits . As a result , the TMD appears loosely packed . Although endogenous lipids have been suggested to occupy these gaps ( Hattori and Gouaux , 2012 ) , recent modeling supported by experimental data has suggested that these crevices are not present in membrane-embedded receptors ( Heymann et al . , 2013 ) . Second , metal bridging experiments suggest that the inner portion of TM2 helices narrows as the channel opens ( Kracun et al . , 2010; Li et al . , 2010 ) , a feature that is not visible from the ATP-bound structure ( Hattori and Gouaux , 2012 ) . Third , to obtain diffracting crystals , proteins were extensively truncated at both the amino and carboxy termini and solubilized with detergents ( Hattori and Gouaux , 2012 ) . Although the truncated receptor was functional , the lack of the intracellular domains , which critically control the function of the receptor ( Chaumont et al . , 2004; Allsopp and Evans , 2011; Robinson and Murrell-Lagnado , 2013 ) , may distort somewhat the structure of the pore , raising the possibility that the X-ray structure may represent a non-native , open-channel state . Hence , additional data are needed to understand the gating mechanism of a full-length , membrane-embedded P2X receptor . In this study , we present a new chemical-based method to explore the gating motion of the rat P2X2 ( rP2X2 ) receptor by cross-linking engineered cysteine residues in the TMD with photo-switchable azobenzene tweezers , for which the end-to-end distance can be controlled by light . A set of structural constraints combined with Molecular Dynamics ( MD ) provided high-resolution models of the channel both in the open and closed states in their physiological environment . These results provide unprecedented insight into the pore-opening motions of this major class of ligand-gated ion channels . 
Cytokinesis , the physical division of one cell into two , is powered by constriction of an actomyosin contractile ring . It has long been assumed that all animal cells divide by a similar molecular mechanism , but growing evidence suggests that cytokinetic regulation in individual cell types has more variation than previously realized . In the four-cell Caenorhabditis elegans embryo , each blastomere has a distinct cell fate , specified by conserved pathways . Using fast-acting temperature-sensitive mutants and acute drug treatment , we identified cell-type-specific variation in the cytokinetic requirement for a robust forminCYK-1-dependent filamentous-actin ( F-actin ) cytoskeleton . In one cell ( P2 ) , this cytokinetic variation is cell-intrinsically regulated , whereas in another cell ( EMS ) this variation is cell-extrinsically regulated , dependent on both SrcSRC-1 signaling and direct contact with its neighbor cell , P2 . Thus , both cell-intrinsic and -extrinsic mechanisms control cytokinetic variation in individual cell types and can protect against division failure when the contractile ring is weakened .  Cytokinesis is the physical division of one cell into two daughter cells , which occurs at the end of the cell cycle . In animal cells , cytokinesis is driven by the equatorial constriction of an actomyosin contractile ring , composed of diaphanous family formin-nucleated F-actin and the motor myosin-II ( for review see [Cheffings et al . , 2016; D'Avino et al . , 2015; Green et al . , 2012; Mandato et al . , 2000; Mishima , 2016; Pollard , 2010] ) . Cytokinesis failure , which results in a binucleate tetraploid ( polyploid ) cell , can lead to human diseases including blood syndromes , neurological disorders , and cancer ( Bione et al . , 1998; Moulding et al . , 2007; Dieterich et al . , 2009; Vinciguerra et al . , 2010; Lacroix and Maddox , 2012; Iolascon et al . , 2013; Liljeholm et al . , 2013; Ferrer et al . , 2014; Ganem et al . , 2014 , 2007; Tormos et al . , 2015 ) . While it has long been assumed that all animal cells divide by a similar molecular mechanism , it is becoming increasingly clear that the functional regulation of cytokinesis has more diversity , or variation in mechanistic and regulatory pathways , than previously appreciated ( Herszterg et al . , 2014; Guillot and Lecuit , 2013; Founounou et al . , 2013; Herszterg et al . , 2013; De Santis Puzzonia et al . , 2016; Choudhary et al . , 2013; Wheatley et al . , 1997; Stopp et al . , 2017 ) . In many animals ( including humans ) , specific cell types or cell lineages within the organism are programmed to fail in cytokinesis and become bi- or multi-nucleate ( e . g . osteoclasts in bone , megakaryocytes in blood , cardiomyocytes in the heart , hepatocytes in the liver ) ( Lacroix and Maddox , 2012; Tormos et al . , 2015; Zimmet and Ravid , 2000; Duncan , 2013; Takegahara et al . , 2016 ) . Thus , in some cell types , cytokinesis failure occurs normally during development and/or homeostasis and , in other cell types , cytokinesis failure can be pathogenic ( Lacroix and Maddox , 2012; Tormos et al . , 2015; Zimmet and Ravid , 2000; Duncan , 2013; Takegahara et al . , 2016 ) , indicating a high degree of cellular variation in both the regulation of cytokinesis and the consequences of cytokinesis failure . As further support for cell-type-specific cytokinetic variation , genomic analysis has revealed that organism-wide mutations in cytokinesis genes are associated with cell-type-specific disruption of cell division in flies , fish , worms , rodents , and even humans ( Bione et al . , 1998; Moulding et al . , 2007; Vinciguerra et al . , 2010; Liljeholm et al . , 2013; Sgrò et al . , 2016; Taniguchi et al . , 2014; Muzzi et al . , 2009; Giansanti et al . , 2004; Paw et al . , 2003; Menon et al . , 2014; Morita et al . , 2005; Jackson et al . , 2011; Di Cunto et al . , 2000; LoTurco et al . , 2003; Ackman et al . , 2007 ) . In human patients , genome-wide association studies have revealed that genomic mutations in cytokinesis genes lead to cell-type-specific division failure and cell- or tissue-type-specific pathologies . For example , an autosomal dominant mutation in the human kinesin-6 MKLP1 , a protein thought to be essential for cytokinesis in all animal cells ( Glotzer , 2009 ) , leads to congenital dyserythropoietic anemia type III ( Liljeholm et al . , 2013 ) . These patients have multinucleated erythroblasts due to a failure in cytokinesis but are otherwise asymptomatic , indicating that cells in other tissues and organs divide successfully ( Liljeholm et al . , 2013 ) . Mutations in Citron Kinase are associated with cytokinesis failure specifically in neuronal precursor cells , leading to multinucleated neurons and microcephaly in mice , rats , and human patients , but the development of other tissues and organs is not grossly disrupted ( Sgrò et al . , 2016; Di Cunto et al . , 2000; Ackman et al . , 2007; Harding et al . , 2016; Li et al . , 2016; Basit et al . , 2016; Shaheen et al . , 2016 ) . Moreover , a mouse knockout of the microtubule and actin-binding protein GAS2L3 dies shortly after birth due to specific defects in cardiomyocyte cytokinesis during heart development , but the overall development of other tissues is not affected ( Stopp et al . , 2017 ) . These findings suggest that cell-type-specific mechanisms modulate the diversity of cytokinesis in animal cells , but the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie this diversity are poorly understood , even at a basic level . There are two fundamental cell-type-specific regulatory mechanisms that could underlie cytokinetic variation: cell-intrinsic regulation ( e . g . cell polarity , inherited proteins and RNAs ) and cell-extrinsic regulation ( e . g . cell-fate signaling , cell-cell adhesions ) . There is some evidence in support of each model . In support of cell-intrinsic regulation , we and others found that cell polarity proteins can promote robust cytokinesis during asymmetric cell division ( Jordan et al . , 2016; Cabernard et al . , 2010; Roth et al . , 2015 ) , and asymmetrically inherited RNA granules in germ lineage cells contain a key splicing regulator involved in cytokinesis ( Audhya et al . , 2005 ) . In support of extrinsic regulation , cell-cell adhesion junctions have been implicated in regulating contractile ring constriction in epithelial cells ( Guillot and Lecuit , 2013; Founounou et al . , 2013; Herszterg et al . , 2013; Bourdages and Maddox , 2013; Pinheiro et al . , 2017; Lázaro-Diéguez and Müsch , 2017; Wang et al . , 2018; Daniel et al . , 2018 ) , and cell-fate signaling molecules , such as Wnt and Src , have been linked to cytokinesis in some contexts ( Fumoto et al . , 2012; Kasahara et al . , 2007; Soeda et al . , 2013 ) . Thus , both cell-intrinsic and -extrinsic regulatory mechanisms could contribute to cel- type-specific diversity in cytokinesis . The C . elegans four-cell embryo is a powerful , optically clear system to probe the mechanisms of cell-type-specific variation in cytokinesis . All four-cell divisions occur within a ~20 min time frame , and cytokinesis can easily be monitored in each individual blastomere , or cell within the embryo , by light microscopy . Worm development follows a defined cell lineage pattern ( Sulston and Horvitz , 1977; Sulston et al . , 1983 ) , and the cell-fate patterning of each blastomere in the four-cell embryo is known ( Rose and Gönczy , 2014 ) . At the four-to-eight-cell division , each of the four cells are already specified to form distinct cell linages by conserved , well-characterized cell-fate signaling pathways ( e . g . Notch/Delta , Wnt , Src; for review see [Rose and Gönczy , 2014; Priess , 2005; Bowerman , 1995] ) . The two-cell embryo divides to form two anterior blastomeres , ABa and ABp , and two posterior blastomeres , EMS and P2 . While the anterior blastomeres are born as identical sisters , activation of Notch family receptors in ABp by a Delta-like ligand on the surface of P2 induces ABp to adopt a different cell fate than ABa ( Mickey et al . , 1996; Bowerman et al . , 1992; Mango et al . , 1994; Moskowitz et al . , 1994; Shelton and Bowerman , 1996 ) . The two posterior blastomeres , EMS and P2 , are born from an asymmetric cell division and cell-cell contact-mediated Wnt and Src signaling between P2 and EMS promote asymmetric cell division and cell fate specification in both cells ( Goldstein , 1992 , 1993 , 1995a , 1995b; Rocheleau et al . , 1997; Thorpe et al . , 1997; Bei et al . , 2002; Arata et al . , 2010; Schierenberg , 1987 ) . Therefore , in the four-cell C . elegans embryo , each cell has a unique cell identity and can be individually scored for contractile ring constriction during cytokinesis . To study the mechanisms of cytokinetic variation , we combined thermogenetics with cell type-specific in vivo and ex vivo analysis of cytokinesis in each blastomere of the four-cell C . elegans embryo . We used fast-acting temperature-sensitive ( ts ) alleles to inactivate two cytokinesis proteins essential for contractile ring constriction in the one-cell embryo ( Davies et al . , 2014; Liu et al . , 2010 ) : the motor myosin-II ( NMY-2 in C . elegans , hereafter myosin-IINMY-2 ) and the diaphanous formin CYK-1 ( hereafter forminCYK-1 ) . We identified cell-type-specific variation in four-cell embryos in the molecular requirement for forminCYK-1 , but not myosin-IINMY-2 . Specifically , we found that while cytokinesis in two blastomeres , ABa and ABp , is sensitive to reduced forminCYK-1 activity , cytokinesis in the other two blastomeres , EMS and P2 , is resistant to defects in forminCYK-1-mediated F-actin assembly . Likewise , cytokinesis in ABa and ABp cells is sensitive to treatment with low doses of LatrunculinA ( LatA ) , a drug that block F-actin polymerization , whereas cytokinesis in EMS and P2 cells is resistant to LatA . We further found that EMS and P2 cells have greatly reduced F-actin levels at the division plane upon forminCYK-1 disruption , despite considerable and often successful equatorial constriction during cytokinesis , suggesting that cytokinesis in these cells is less dependent on F-actin in the contractile ring . To determine if EMS- and P2-specific variation in cytokinesis regulation is due to cell-intrinsic or -extrinsic regulation , we isolated individual blastomeres by embryo microdissection and examined the effect on cytokinesis when kept in isolation or when sister blastomeres were paired . We found that P2 cells are protected against cytokinesis failure after forminCYK-1 disruption even when isolated from the embryo , indicating cell-intrinsic regulation of cytokinesis , whereas EMS cells are not protected against cytokinesis failure upon isolation . EMS cytokinetic protection is restored upon pairing with P2 , but not with ABa/ABp cells , indicating that cytokinesis in EMS is subject to cell-extrinsic regulation by P2 . Finally , we found that cytokinesis in EMS is dependent on the proto-oncogenic tyrosine kinase SrcSRC-1 , a critical player in EMS cell fate specification that is known to be activated in EMS by direct contact with P2 ( Bei et al . , 2002; Arata et al . , 2010 ) . This work establishes the C . elegans four-cell embryo as a system to study cytokinetic variation and demonstrates that both cell-intrinsic and -extrinsic regulations contribute to cell-type-specific diversity in cytokinetic mechanisms . 
Bacterial flagella mediate host–microbe interactions through tissue tropism during colonization , as well as by activating immune responses . The flagellar shaft of some bacteria , including several human pathogens , is encased in a membranous sheath of unknown function . While it has been hypothesized that the sheath may allow these bacteria to evade host responses to the immunogenic flagellin subunit , this unusual structural feature has remained an enigma . Here we demonstrate that the rotation of the sheathed flagellum in both the mutualist Vibrio fischeri and the pathogen Vibrio cholerae promotes release of a potent bacteria-derived immunogen , lipopolysaccharide , found in the flagellar sheath . We further present a new role for the flagellar sheath in triggering , rather than circumventing , host immune responses in the model squid-vibrio symbiosis . Such an observation not only has implications for the study of bacterial pathogens with sheathed flagella , but also raises important biophysical questions of sheathed-flagellum function .  Bacterial flagella are important virulence factors that facilitate tissue tropism in host–microbe interactions . Besides mediating such migration , flagella serve additional functions , such as adherence to or invasion of host cells ( Young et al . , 2000; Hayashi et al . , 2001; Giron et al . , 2002 ) . However , in most vertebrate models of pathogenesis , it has been difficult to separate the distinct contribution of flagellar motility in bacterial migration from its other roles , such as immune-system activation ( Feuillet et al . , 2006; Andersen-Nissen et al . , 2007 ) . Bacterial flagella are highly conserved on a molecular level , but display diversity in morphology , number and subcellular localization between species . One such variation is the presence of an outer membrane-derived sheath ( Fuerst and Perry , 1988; Geis et al . , 1993; Ferooz and Letesson , 2010 ) . While the flagella of most bacteria are unsheathed , such a structure surrounds the filament of several polarly flagellated bacteria , including several with a host-associated lifestyle . The biological function ( s ) of the sheath remains unknown , but it has been posited to allow these bacteria to evade innate immune recognition of the enclosed flagellins ( Gewirtz et al . , 2004; Yoon and Mekalanos , 2008 ) . This hypothesized role for the flagellar sheath presents a conundrum: what is the effect of coating a rapidly spinning structure with lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , another potent immunostimulatory molecule ? As the tools with which to study the flagellar sheath are limited , we sought to use the model symbiosis between Vibrio fischeri and the Hawaiian bobtail squid , in which the events of initial colonization can be observed in real-time , to probe whether the sheathed flagellum plays a role in inducing a symbiont-specific host response . V . fischeri is a gram-negative , bioluminescent bacterium that is found both in seawater and as a beneficial symbiont colonizing the light-emitting organs of certain fishes and squids . In the mutualism with the Hawaiian bobtail squid , Euprymna scolopes , symbiosis begins when a newly hatched squid specifically recruits V . fischeri cells from ambient seawater . The bacteria first aggregate on ciliated appendages of the light organ , and then migrate through pores and down ducts , ultimately reaching internal crypts ( Figure 1A ) where the symbiont population is housed ( Nyholm and McFall-Ngai , 2004 ) . Successful colonization of the crypts ultimately requires flagellar motility , as amotile mutants are unable to colonize the light-organ to luminous levels ( Graf et al . , 1994; Brennan et al . , 2013 ) . However , the symbionts are sensed by host cells even before they reach the crypts . Indeed , as few as 3–5 bacteria interacting with the ciliated cells of the surface appendages signal both organ-wide changes in host transcription and immune-cell ( hemocyte ) trafficking ( Koropatnick et al . , 2007; Kremer et al . , 2013 ) . Colonizing V . fischeri cells also induce an extensive morphogenesis of the light organ , beginning with the programmed cell death ( apoptosis ) of the ciliated appendages that begins within 6 hr of initial exposure to the symbiont , and continues until their complete regression ( Montgomery and McFall-Ngai , 1994; Foster et al . , 2000 ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 003Figure 1 . Motility mutants of V . fischeri do not induce early-stage apoptosis . ( A ) Morphology of the juvenile light organ , highlighting the external ciliated epithelium ( CE; false-colored blue ) in a scanning electron micrograph ( left ) , and the internal features with which the bacteria interact during initiation of symbiotic colonization in a schematic diagram ( right ) . DC , deep crypts; AC , antechamber; D , duct; P , pore; and MF , mucus field . ( B–E ) Representative laser-scanning confocal microscopy ( LSCM ) images of acridine orange ( AO ) -stained juvenile light organs , after exposure to either: no V . fischeri ( B , apo ) ; wild type ( C ) ; flrA ( D ) ; or motB1 ( E ) , as described in the ‘Materials and methods’ . White arrowhead in ( C ) indicates one of the numerous AO-positive nuclei ( yellow ) . Scale bar in ( B ) represents 100 μm for all the images . ( F ) Counts of AO-positive nuclei in the light-organ ciliated epithelium of squid exposed to either the indicated V . fischeri strains , or no V . fischeri ( apo ) . ( *** ) , p<0 . 001 by Kruskal–Wallis Analysis of Variance ( ANOVA ) , followed by Dunn’s Multiple Comparison test . The absence of apoptosis in the aposymbiotic squid confirms that the experimental addition of peptidoglycan ( PGN ) ( ‘Materials and methods’ ) is insufficient to induce AO staining . ( G ) Bacterial localization under conditions used for measurement of early-stage apoptosis ( panel F ) . Localization was determined by examining squid exposed to the indicated strains , genetically labeled to express GFP , using LSCM . Each point represents the bacterial localization in a single light-organ lobe . ( H ) Level of colonization ( colony-forming units , CFU ) under conditions used for measurement of early-stage apoptosis ( panel F ) . Light organs were dissected from anesthetized and pithed squid , and then homogenized and plated to determine symbiont number . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 004Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Soft-agar motility of wild-type , flrA and motB1 strains . Wild-type , motB1 and flrA strains were grown to mid-log phase and inoculated into SWT medium supplemented with 0 . 3% agar . Plates were visualized after incubating for 11 hr at 28°C . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 005Figure 1—figure supplement 2 . Negative-stain transmission electron micrograph of a representative flagellated motB1 cell . The motB1 mutant was grown to mid-log phase in SWT broth , and visualized by transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) after negative-staining . Scale bar indicates 1 µm . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 00510 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 006Figure 1—figure supplement 3 . Negative-stain transmission electron micrograph of a representative aflagellate flrA cell . The flrA mutant was grown to mid-log phase in SWT broth , and visualized by negative-stain TEM . Scale bar indicates 1 µm . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 00610 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 007Figure 1—figure supplement 4 . Representative LSCM image of an AO-stained light-organ lobe isolated from a squid treated with exogenous V . fischeri lipid A . As described in the ‘Materials and methods’ , squid were exposed for 10 hr to purified V . fischeri lipid A , then stained with acridine orange . White arrowheads indicate two of the AO-positive nuclei ( yellow ) . Scale bar represents 100 μm . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 00710 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 008Figure 1—figure supplement 5 . Induction of early-stage apoptosis in response to exogenous lipid A . As described in the ‘Materials and methods’ , squid were exposed for 10 hr to either no V . fischeri ( apo ) , wild-type V . fischeri , or purified V . fischeri lipid A alone . Early-stage apoptosis was determined by counting the number of acridine orange ( AO ) -positive nuclei in the ciliated field of one lobe of the light organ . ( *** ) , p<0 . 001 by Kruskal–Wallis ANOVA , followed by Dunn's Multiple Comparison test . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01579 . 008 
Genome instability is associated with mitotic errors and cancer . This phenomenon can lead to deleterious rearrangements , but also genetic novelty , and many questions regarding its genesis , fate and evolutionary role remain unanswered . Here , we describe extreme chromosomal restructuring during genome elimination , a process resulting from hybridization of Arabidopsis plants expressing different centromere histones H3 . Shattered chromosomes are formed from the genome of the haploid inducer , consistent with genomic catastrophes affecting a single , laggard chromosome compartmentalized within a micronucleus . Analysis of breakpoint junctions implicates breaks followed by repair through non-homologous end joining ( NHEJ ) or stalled fork repair . Furthermore , mutation of required NHEJ factor DNA Ligase 4 results in enhanced haploid recovery . Lastly , heritability and stability of a rearranged chromosome suggest a potential for enduring genomic novelty . These findings provide a tractable , natural system towards investigating the causes and mechanisms of complex genomic rearrangements similar to those associated with several human disorders .  Nucleosomes containing variant histone ( centromeric histone H3 , CENH3 ) ( Verdaasdonk and Bloom , 2011 ) ( also known as CENP-A ) determine centromeres . In the absence of the endogenous CENH3 , Arabidopsis thaliana mitotic and meiotic functions can be complemented by chimeric CENH3 ( Ravi and Chan , 2010; Ravi et al . , 2010 ) or CENH3 from diverged plant species ( Maheshwari et al . , 2015 ) , but crossing these strains to wild-type individuals results in frequent loss of the chromosomes marked by the variant CENH3 . Following stochastic genome elimination in the early mitotic divisions , the progeny can be haploid , aneuploid or diploid ( Ravi and Chan , 2010; Ravi et al . , 2014 ) . In nature , similar phenomena involve defective CENH3 loading ( Sanei et al . , 2011 ) . Thus , mating of individuals that express diverged CENH3s , can lead to mitotic catastrophe . The consequences of mitotic malfunction on genome integrity can be dire ( McClintock , 1984; Gordon et al . , 2012 ) . Missegregated chromosomes can lead to aneuploidy ( Janssen et al . , 2011 ) , but also to extensive and catastrophic restructuring resulting in , sequentially , chromosome sequestration in micronuclei , endonucleolytic damage , defective repair , and finally rescue ( Crasta et al . , 2012; Hatch et al . , 2013; Zhang et al . , 2013 ) . The resulting structurally rearranged chromosomes may contribute to cancer or developmental syndromes ( Hastings et al . , 2009; Liu et al . , 2011; Stephens et al . , 2011; Jones and Jallepalli , 2012 ) . Nevertheless , chromosomal rearrangements are not necessarily deleterious: some may influence fitness by altering recombination or gene dosage ( Comai et al . , 2003 ) . It is possible that pathways leading to disease and to diversity share a common mechanistic basis ( Zhang et al . , 2013 ) . Genome elimination in Arabidopsis provides a previously lacking organismal system to investigate genome instability during mitotic catastrophes , connected mechanisms , and consequences . 
Latent Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) infection is causally linked to several human cancers . EBV expresses viral oncogenes that promote cell growth and inhibit the apoptotic response to uncontrolled proliferation . The EBV oncoprotein LMP1 constitutively activates NFκB and is critical for survival of EBV-immortalized B cells . However , during early infection EBV induces rapid B cell proliferation with low levels of LMP1 and little apoptosis . Therefore , we sought to define the mechanism of survival in the absence of LMP1/NFκB early after infection . We used BH3 profiling to query mitochondrial regulation of apoptosis and defined a transition from uninfected B cells ( BCL-2 ) to early-infected ( MCL-1/BCL-2 ) and immortalized cells ( BFL-1 ) . This dynamic change in B cell survival mechanisms is unique to virus-infected cells and relies on regulation of MCL-1 mitochondrial localization and BFL-1 transcription by the viral EBNA3A protein . This study defines a new role for EBNA3A in the suppression of apoptosis with implications for EBV lymphomagenesis .  An estimated 15% of cancers worldwide are caused by infectious agents like viruses . Of these , Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) was the first human tumor virus discovered and is associated with malignancies of both B lymphocyte and epithelial cell origin . Normally , T cells prevent the development of EBV-associated malignancies and the virus persists quiescently in latently-infected memory B cells . As a result , nearly all adults in the world are latently infected ( Longnecker et al . , 2013 ) , making EBV a particularly widespread and successful pathogen . However , in the absence of a healthy immune system , such as following organ transplant or HIV infection , EBV can transform B cells leading to markedly increased rates of lymphoma in these populations . Primary human B cell infection in vitro by EBV leads to their growth transformation and serves as a model for oncogenesis in EBV-associated lymphomas . This process requires the expression of six viral latent genes: Epstein-Barr Nuclear Antigen 1 ( EBNA1 ) , EBNA2 , EBNA-LP , EBNA3A , EBNA3C and Latent Membrane Protein 1 ( LMP1 ) ( Longnecker et al . , 2013 ) . EBNA2 , the major viral transcriptional activator and the first to be expressed upon infection , upregulates expression of the other viral EBNA genes as well as host genes ( Wang et al . , 2000; Zimber-Strobl and Strobl , 2001 ) . EBNA2 also activates the expression of the viral oncoprotein LMP1 , which drives the immortalization of the infected B cell into a lymphoblastoid cell line , or LCL , that proliferates indefinitely in culture . Together , the EBV latent oncoproteins mimic key aspects of normal B cell biology , promote proliferation , and inhibit the host innate tumor suppressor response to uncontrolled proliferation ( Allday , 2013; Price and Luftig , 2014 ) . It is well-established that the LMP1 oncoprotein is necessary for continued LCL growth and survival ( Kaye et al . , 1993; Zimber-Strobl et al . , 1996 ) . LMP1 mimics a pro-survival TNF receptor that signals constitutively through the NFκB pathway to promote proliferation and suppress apoptosis in transformed cells ( Cahir-McFarland et al . , 2000; Okan et al . , 1995; Pratt et al . , 2012 ) . In fact , inhibition of the NFκB pathway activated downstream of LMP1 leads to apoptosis in LCLs . However , recent work from our laboratory has demonstrated that , early after infection , B cells rapidly proliferate despite low levels of LMP1 expression and NFκB activation ( Nikitin et al . , 2010; Price et al . , 2012 ) . Surprisingly , these early-infected cells also show no overt signs of apoptosis despite strong activation of the cellular DNA damage response ( Nikitin et al . , 2014 ) . This suggests that in early-infected cells , there is a viral-mediated mechanism independent of LMP1 signaling that promotes survival . Several LMP1-independent mechanisms to subvert apoptosis have been described . For example , the viral BCL-2 homologue BHRF1 confers chemoresistance in a mouse model of Burkitt lymphoma ( BL ) ( Kvansakul et al . , 2010 ) . Similarly , the viral BHRF1 and BALF1 proteins exert non-redundant roles in protecting initially infected cells from apoptosis ( Altmann and Hammerschmidt , 2005 ) . In addition , expression of the EBNA3 proteins induces resistance to apoptosis in BL cells and primary B cells by downregulating Bim expression ( Paschos et al . , 2009; Skalska et al . , 2013 ) , thereby making infected cells less ‘primed’ for apoptosis . The EBNA3 family is also known to epigenetically downregulate additional human genes involved in cell cycle regulation and apoptosis ( Allday , 2013; Harth-Hertle et al . , 2013; Hertle et al . , 2009; Paschos et al . , 2012; Skalska et al . , 2013 ) . It has been shown that the EBNA3 proteins mediate these epigenetic effects , in part , via interacting with additional proteins in such a way that chromatin architecture can be dramatically altered ( Bazot et al . , 2015; McClellan et al . , 2013 ) . While thought to be generally repressive in nature , recent work has shown that in some instances EBNA3 proteins can activate gene transcription ( Bazot et al . , 2015 ) . In sum , viral proteins confer several survival advantages to infected cells , which often results in EBV-positive lymphomas that are more difficult to treat than their EBV-negative counterparts ( Kelly et al . , 2006 ) . The intrinsic apoptosis pathway is controlled by complex protein—protein interactions at the surface of mitochondria that regulate the release of cytochrome c ( Youle and Strasser , 2008 ) . These functional interactions can be interrogated with an established approach called ‘BH3 profiling’ , which uses peptides derived from BH3-only pro-apoptotic proteins to identify the anti-apoptotic BCL-2 family members important for preventing apoptosis in a particular cell ( Del Gaizo Moore and Letai , 2013; Deng et al . , 2007 ) . Furthermore , molecular characterization of the interface between BH3 domains of these proteins has allowed for the creation of a new class of small molecule inhibitors that promote apoptosis directly in sensitive cell types ( Billard , 2013; Oltersdorf et al . , 2005 ) . These so-called ‘BH3 mimetics’ are highly specific and show great promise in clinical trials ( Letai , 2008 ) . In this study , we characterized the BH3 profile of uninfected and EBV-infected primary human B cells from early proliferation through long-term outgrowth . We validated these profiles using BH3 mimetics and , importantly , identified a novel virus-specific transition in survival mechanisms between early and late stages of latent infection with implications for therapy of EBV-associated malignancies . 
Plants produce diverse metabolites to cope with the challenges presented by complex and ever-changing environments . These challenges drive the diversification of specialized metabolites within and between plant species . However , we are just beginning to understand how frequently new alleles arise controlling specialized metabolite diversity and how the geographic distribution of these alleles may be structured by ecological and demographic pressures . Here , we measure the variation in specialized metabolites across a population of 797 natural Arabidopsis thaliana accessions . We show that a combination of geography , environmental parameters , demography and different genetic processes all combine to influence the specific chemotypes and their distribution . This showed that causal loci in specialized metabolism contain frequent independently generated alleles with patterns suggesting potential within-species convergence . This provides a new perspective about the complexity of the selective forces and mechanisms that shape the generation and distribution of allelic variation that may influence local adaptation .  Continuous and dynamic change in a plant’s habitat/environment creates a complex system to which a plant must adapt . Central to this adaptation are the production and accumulation of different metabolites ranging from signaling hormones , primary metabolites to a wide array of multi-functional specialized metabolites ( Erb and Kliebenstein , 2020; Hanower and Brzozowska , 1975; Hayat et al . , 2012; Kim et al . , 2012; Kliebenstein , 2004; Malcolm , 1994; Thakur and Rai , 1982; Wolters and Jürgens , 2009; Yang et al . , 2000 ) . The complete blend , chemotype , of these metabolites helps to determine the plants’ survival and development , but the creation of any blend is complicated by the fact that individual specialized metabolites can have contrasting effects on the plant . For example , individual specialized metabolites can defend the plant against some stressors while simultaneously making the plant more sensitive to other biotic or abiotic stresses ( Agrawal , 2000; Bialy et al . , 1990; Erb and Kliebenstein , 2020; Futuyma and Agrawal , 2009; Hu et al . , 2018; Lankau , 2007; Opitz and Müller , 2009; Uremıs et al . , 2009; Züst and Agrawal , 2017 ) . These opposing effects create offsetting ecological benefits and costs for individual metabolites . Integrating these offsetting effects across dynamic environments involves multiple selective pressures that might contribute to shaping the genetic and metabolic variation within a species ( Fan et al . , 2019; Kerwin et al . , 2015; Malcolm , 1994; Sønderby et al . , 2010; Szakiel et al . , 2011; Wentzell and Kliebenstein , 2008; Züst et al . , 2012 ) . Significant advances have been made in recent decades to identify genetic sources contributing to metabolic variation . A common finding of these studies is that the metabolic variation within and between species is the result of structural variation at the enzymes responsible for the chemical structures , or variation at the expression levels of these enzymes , which contributes to the quantitative variation in specialized metabolism ( Chan et al . , 2011; Chan et al . , 2010; Fan et al . , 2019; Kroymann et al . , 2003; Moore et al . , 2019; Schilmiller et al . , 2012 ) . These structural and regulatory variants and the resulting chemical variation strongly influence plant fitness in response to a broad range of biotic interactions including herbivores and other plant species ( Bednarek and Osbourn , 2009; Brachi et al . , 2015; Kerwin et al . , 2017; Kerwin et al . , 2015; Lankau and Kliebenstein , 2009; Lankau and Strauss , 2007; Lankau , 2007 ) . The potential for these genetic variants influencing plant chemical variation is derived from the enhanced proportion of gene duplication in enzyme encoding genes for specialized metabolism , both at the local and whole genome level ( Kliebenstein et al . , 2001c; Moghe and Last , 2015 ) . Many mechanistic studies of natural variation in specialized metabolism have focused on biallelic phenotypic variation linked to loss-of-function variants . However , it is not clear if biallelic phenotypic variation is created by biallelic genetic causation when investigating a large collection of individuals from wide-ranging populations within a species . If selective pressures are sufficiently non-linear , it is possible to have repeated and independent generation of structural variants creating the same metabolic variation in processes that are akin to parallel and convergent evolution are used to describe interspecific variation . Specifically , parallel and convergent evolution describe independent evolution of the same trait that differs depending on the beginning state of the organisms . In parallel evolution , the lineages begin from the same state and in parallel evolve to the same new state , while in convergent evolution the lineages start at different states and independently converge on the same new state ( Figure 1 ) . In this context , we are focusing the analogy on the fact that the two processes differ where they begin , same or different state . This raises the possibility for chemical variation within a species to exhibit parallel evolution , wherein independent new haplotypes with identical metabolic consequences arise multiple times from single-core haplotype . Equally it may be possible to find within-species convergent evolution , where genotypes with the same metabolic profile actually contain completely different haplotypes that themselves arose from distinct haplotypic lineages . These genetic processes and interplay between genetics and selection overlap with neutral demographic processes like gene flow . Thus , it is necessary to understand how the intersection of environmental pressure , demography and genomic complexity gives rise to the pattern of metabolic variation across a plant species . To better understand how genomic variation , demography and environmental pressure shape the variation of specialized metabolism within a species , we used the Arabidopsis glucosinolate ( GSL ) pathway as a model . GSLs are a diverse class of specialized metabolites that display extensive variation across the order Brassicales , which includes the model plant Arabidopsis ( Arabidopsis thaliana ) ( Bakker et al . , 2008; Benderoth et al . , 2006; Brachi et al . , 2015; Chan et al . , 2010; Daxenbichler et al . , 1991; Halkier and Gershenzon , 2006; Kerwin et al . , 2015; Kliebenstein et al . , 2001a; Kliebenstein et al . , 2001b; Kliebenstein et al . , 2001c; Rodman et al . , 1981; Rodman , 1980; Sønderby et al . , 2010; Wright et al . , 2002 ) . GSLs consist of a common core structure with a diverse side chain that determines biological activity in defense , growth , development and abiotic stress resistance ( Beekwilder et al . , 2008; Hansen et al . , 2008; Hasegawa et al . , 2000; Katz et al . , 2020; Katz et al . , 2015; Malinovsky et al . , 2017; Salehin et al . , 2019; Yamada et al . , 2003 ) . The Arabidopsis-GSL system is an optimal model to study the species-wide processes driving specialized metabolite variation because the identity of the whole biosynthetic pathway is known , including the major causal loci for natural variation ( Benderoth et al . , 2006; Brachi et al . , 2015; Chan et al . , 2011; Chan et al . , 2010; Hansen et al . , 2007; Kliebenstein et al . , 2001a; Kliebenstein et al . , 2002b; Kliebenstein et al . , 2002a; Kroymann and Mitchell-Olds , 2005; Pfalz et al . , 2007; Sønderby et al . , 2010; Wentzell et al . , 2007 ) . These major loci have been proven to influence Arabidopsis fitness and can be linked to herbivore pressure ( Brachi et al . , 2015; Hansen et al . , 2008; Jander et al . , 2001; Kerwin et al . , 2017; Kerwin et al . , 2015; Züst et al . , 2012 ) . Beyond the major causal loci , there is also evidence from genome-wide association ( GWA ) studies for highly polygenic variation in the genetic background that contributes to modulating GSL variation ( Chan et al . , 2011 ) . The public availability of over 1000 widely distributed accessions with genomic sequences facilitates phenotyping GSL variation across a large spatial scale and analyses of causal haplotypes at the major GSL causal loci . In Arabidopsis and other Brassicas , the main GSLs are methionine-derived , aliphatic , GSLs . Variation in the structure of aliphatic GSL is controlled by natural genetic variation at three loci: GS-Elong , GS-AOP and GS-OH . The specific alleles at these three loci combine to determine a predominant chemical structure and define chemically distinct aliphatic GSL chemotypes . In addition to these large-effect loci , there is a large suite of loci that can quantitatively alter the total accumulation and relative concentrations of GSLs within each chemotype ( Brachi et al . , 2015; Chan et al . , 2011; Chan et al . , 2010 ) . GS-Elong differentially elongates the methionine side chain by the methylthioalkylmalate synthase enzymes ( MAM ) . The elongation of the side chain by one methylene group is the result of one cycle that includes three steps: deamination of the methionine to create a ω-methylthio-2-oxoalkanoic-acid , condensation of the ω-methylthio-2-oxoalkanoic-acid with acetyl-CoA , and then isomerization and oxidative decarboxylation . The one carbon longer outcome can then undergo additional cycles of elongation ( Benderoth et al . , 2006; Graser et al . , 2000; Kroymann et al . , 2001; Textor et al . , 2007 ) . In Arabidopsis , MAM2 catalyzes the addition of one carbon to the side chain , creating GSLs with three carbon side chains . MAM1 catalyzes the addition of two carbons to make GSLs with four carbon side chains ( Figure 2 ) . MAM3 ( also known as MAM-L ) catalyzes the additions up to six carbons ( Kliebenstein et al . , 2001c; Kroymann et al . , 2003; Mithen et al . , 1995; Textor et al . , 2007 ) . The core pathway leads to the creation of methylthio GSL ( MT ) . Then , the MT is converted to a methylsulfinyl ( MSO ) with a matching number of carbons ( Giamoustaris and Mithen , 1996; Hansen et al . , 2007 ) . Structural variation at the GS-AOP locus leads to differential modification of the MSO by differential expression of a family of 2-oxoacid-dependent dioxygenases ( 2ODD ) . The AOP2 enzyme removes the MSO moiety leaving an alkenyl sidechain , while AOP3 leaves a hydroxyl moiety . Previous work has suggested three alleles of GS-AOP: the OHP allele that expresses only AOP3 and accumulates terminal OH containing GLS in the leaves and seeds; an alkenyl allele expressing AOP2 in the leaf and AOP2 and AOP3 in the seed leading to solely alkenyl GLS in the leaf and both alkenyl and OH aliphatic GLS in the seed; and a final allele containing a null mutation in the AOP2 gene that accumulates MSO GLS in the leaf and enhanced MSO and OH GLS in the seed . ( Figure 2; Chan et al . , 2010; Kliebenstein et al . , 2001b; Kliebenstein et al . , 2001c; Mithen et al . , 1995 ) . The C4 alkenyl side chain can be further modified by adding a hydroxyl group at the 2C via the GS-OH 2-ODD ( Figure 2; Hansen et al . , 2008 ) . In spite of the evolutionary distance , independent variation at the same three loci influences the structural diversity in aliphatic-GSLs within Brassica , Streptanthus and Arabidopsis ( Kliebenstein and Cacho , 2016; Lankau and Kliebenstein , 2009 ) . For example , the MAMs responsible for C3 GSLs in Arabidopsis and Brassica represent two independent lineages , same as the MAMs responsible for C4 GSLs; in fact , the MAM locus contains at least three independent lineages that recreate the same length variation ( Abrahams et al . , 2020 ) . This indicates repeated evolution across species , but it is not clear how frequently these loci are changing within a single species or how ecological or demographic processes may shape within-species variation at these loci . In this work , we described GSL variation in seeds of a collection of 797 A . thaliana natural accessions collected from different locations mainly in and around Europe . The amounts of GSLs can vary across different tissues and life stages , but there is a strong correlation in the type of aliphatic GSL produced across tissues ( Brown et al . , 2003; Kliebenstein et al . , 2001a; Kliebenstein et al . , 2001b; Petersen et al . , 2002 ) . Thus , in most cases the chemotype of the seeds is the same as the leaves . The seeds have the highest level of GSLs in Arabidopsis and are stable at room temperature until germination , which makes the seeds a perfect tissue to survey variation . Further , GSLs are known to be important for seed defenses against herbivores and pathogens ( Raybould and Moyes , 2001 ) . By combining GSL seed measurements with prior whole-genome sequencing in a European collection of accessions , we show that all three major causal loci controlling GSL metabolic diversity contain multiple independently derived alleles that recreate the same phenotypes using a combination of single nucleotide polimorphism ( SNPs ) and structural variation . Using these causal genotypes and chemotypes in combination with their geographic distribution provided evidence that the distribution of GSL metabolic diversity across Europe is influenced by a combination of demography and ecological factors . The ecological relationships to chemotype suggested a potential for variation in selective processes across the geographic regions studied . Future work will be needed to identify the specific biotic and/or abiotic factors shaping this distribution . 
Apoptosis and its molecular mediators , the caspases , have long been regarded as tumor suppressors and one hallmark of cancer is ‘Evading Apoptosis’ . However , recent work has suggested that apoptotic caspases can also promote proliferation and tumor growth under certain conditions . How caspases promote proliferation and how cells are protected from the potentially harmful action of apoptotic caspases is largely unknown . Here , we show that although caspases are activated in a well-studied neoplastic tumor model in Drosophila , oncogenic mutations of the proto-oncogene Ras ( RasV12 ) maintain tumorous cells in an ‘undead’-like condition and transform caspases from tumor suppressors into tumor promotors . Instead of killing cells , caspases now promote the generation of intra- and extracellular reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . One function of the ROS is the recruitment and activation of macrophage-like immune cells which in turn signal back to tumorous epithelial cells to activate oncogenic JNK signaling . JNK further promotes and amplifies caspase activity , thereby constituting a feedback amplification loop . Interfering with the amplification loop strongly reduces the neoplastic behavior of these cells and significantly improves organismal survival . In conclusion , RasV12-modified caspases initiate a feedback amplification loop involving tumorous epithelial cells and macrophage-like immune cells that is necessary for uncontrolled tumor growth and invasive behavior .  Larval imaginal discs in Drosophila are single-cell layered sacs of epithelial cells that develop into the adult appendages such as eyes and wings , and are frequently used as genetic models for growth control and tumor development . Maintenance of apical-basal polarity of epithelial cells is critical for suppression of neoplastic tumor development ( Elsum et al . , 2012; Bergstralh and St Johnston , 2012; Martin-Belmonte and Perez-Moreno , 2011 ) . Mutations in genes encoding components of the Scribble complex including scribble ( scrib ) , lethal giant larvae ( lgl ) and discs large ( dlg ) disrupt apical-basal polarity in epithelial cells which can trigger malignant neoplastic tumor growth ( Bergstralh and St Johnston , 2012; Elsum et al . , 2012; Bilder et al . , 2000; Gateff , 1978; Bilder and Perrimon , 2000 ) . Drosophila larvae entirely mutant for scrib fail to respond to stop signals of growth , fail to pupariate and continue to grow as larvae ( Gateff , 1994; Wodarz , 2000 ) . They die as giant larvae with severely overgrown imaginal discs . However , scrib mutant cells ( clones ) in otherwise wild-type imaginal discs are eliminated by cell competition mediated by neighboring wild-type cells ( Brumby and Richardson , 2003; Menéndez et al . , 2010; Igaki et al . , 2009; Uhlirova et al . , 2005; Ohsawa et al . , 2011; Leong et al . , 2009; Chen et al . , 2012; Vaughen and Igaki , 2016 ) . Mechanistically , in response to cell competition , Eiger , the Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha ( TNFα ) -like ligand in Drosophila , triggers Jun N-terminal kinase ( JNK ) activation and apoptosis in scrib mutant cells ( Igaki et al . , 2009; Brumby and Richardson , 2003; Uhlirova et al . , 2005; Cordero et al . , 2010; Ohsawa et al . , 2011; Leong et al . , 2009; Igaki et al . , 2006; Chen et al . , 2012 ) . This tumor-suppressing function is dependent on Eiger and JNK through induction of apoptosis . Inhibition of Eiger or JNK restores the growth potential of scrib mutant cells which can then form large tumor masses in imaginal discs ( Brumby and Richardson , 2003; Igaki et al . , 2009; Uhlirova et al . , 2005; Chen et al . , 2012 ) . However , if additional oncogenic mutations such as RasV12 are introduced into scrib mutant cells ( referred to a scrib−/− RasV12 ) , they can unleash their full malignant potential ( Brumby and Richardson , 2003; Pagliarini and Xu , 2003 ) . scrib−/− RasV12 mosaic eye/antennal imaginal discs display all neoplastic features observed in human tumors including unrestricted growth , failure to differentiate , tissue invasion and organismal lethality ( Pagliarini and Xu , 2003; Brumby and Richardson , 2003 ) . scrib−/− RasV12 clones occupy a large portion of the mosaic disc and trigger multi-layered overgrowth of the entire disc compared to wild-type controls ( Figure 1H , I ) . scrib−/− RasV12 mutant cells also invade other tissues , most notably the ventral nerve cord ( VNC ) in the brain ( Figure 1H , I ) ( Pagliarini and Xu , 2003 ) . The scrib−/− RasV12 condition in ey-FLP-induced eye imaginal disc mosaics is 100% lethal . 95% of ey-FLP-induced scrib−/− RasV12 mosaic animals die as larvae; the remaining animals die during pupal stages . Interestingly , RasV12 inhibits the apoptotic activity of JNK and converts the tumor-suppressor function of Eiger and JNK in scrib−/− cells into a tumor-promoting one in scrib−/− RasV12 cells ( Enomoto et al . , 2015; Cordero et al . , 2010; Uhlirova et al . , 2005; Igaki et al . , 2006; Uhlirova and Bohmann , 2006 ) . Therefore , the aggressive tumor growth of scrib−/− RasV12 mutant clones becomes dependent on Eiger and JNK ( Igaki et al . , 2006; Uhlirova and Bohmann , 2006; Brumby et al . , 2011 ) . Mechanistically , it is not understood how RasV12 promotes this oncogenic switch of Eiger and JNK . Caspases are Cys-proteases that mediate the mechanistic events of apoptotic cell death ( Shalini et al . , 2015; Xu et al . , 2009; Fuchs and Steller , 2011; Salvesen et al . , 2016 ) . They are synthesized as zymogens and depending on the length of their prodomains can be classified into initiator and effector caspases . Initiator caspases such as mammalian Caspase-9 or its Drosophila ortholog Dronc are controlled by upstream signaling events and when activated initiate apoptosis by activating effector caspases such as mammalian Caspase-3 or its Drosophila ortholog DrICE ( Fuchs and Steller , 2011; Shalini et al . , 2015; Salvesen et al . , 2016 ) . Caspases induce apoptosis of many cells to maintain homeostatic conditions , and are also thought to be critical for tumor suppression by eliminating malignant cells . However , caspases can also have tumor-promoting roles , for example through apoptosis-induced proliferation ( AiP ) , a caspase-driven process by which apoptotic cells produce mitogenic signals for proliferation of neighboring surviving cells ( Mollereau et al . , 2013 ) ( reviewed in [Fogarty and Bergmann , 2017; Ryoo and Bergmann , 2012] ) . There are two types of AiP . During ‘genuine’ AiP , apoptotic cells release mitogenic factors before completing the apoptotic program . This type of AiP has been described for regeneration and wound healing both in vertebrates and invertebrates ( Tseng et al . , 2007; Fan and Bergmann , 2008; Chera et al . , 2009; Li et al . , 2010 ) . ‘Genuine’ AiP may also be involved in human pathologies such as cancer , and may account for increased cell proliferation and repopulation of tumors following cytotoxic treatments ( chemo- or radiotherapy ) which induces massive apoptosis ( reviewed in [Fogarty and Bergmann , 2017; Ichim and Tait , 2016] ) . Caspases play significant tumor-promoting roles in these settings ( Li et al . , 2010; Huang et al . , 2011; Donato et al . , 2014; Cheng et al . , 2015; Zhang et al . , 2015; Kurtova et al . , 2015 ) . The second type is ‘undead’ AiP . Here , the apoptosis pathway is induced upstream , but the execution of apoptosis is blocked . In Drosophila , apoptosis inhibition is achieved experimentally by expression of the effector caspase inhibitor p35 which very specifically inhibits DrICE ( Hay et al . , 1994; Meier et al . , 2000; Hawkins et al . , 2000 ) . Therefore , because these cells have initiated the apoptotic process and contain active Dronc , but cannot die , they are referred to as ‘undead’ . In ‘undead’ cells , non-apoptotic functions of active Dronc can now be examined , one of which is the release of mitogenic signals for induction of AiP which can lead to hyperplastic overgrowth ( Wells et al . , 2006; Kondo et al . , 2006; Huh et al . , 2004; Ryoo et al . , 2004; Martín et al . , 2009; Pérez-Garijo et al . , 2009; Pérez-Garijo et al . , 2004; Fan et al . , 2014; Rudrapatna et al . , 2013; Pérez-Garijo et al . , 2005 ) . ‘Undead’ states of cells may also be present under pathological conditions . For instance , it has been proposed that RasV12 can maintain apoptotic cells in an ‘undead’-like state promoting tumorigenesis ( Hirabayashi et al . , 2013 ) . Mechanistically , we have shown that AiP-mediated hyperplastic overgrowth of ‘undead’ tissue depends on a Dronc-initiated feedback amplification loop which involves reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) – specifically extracellular ROS produced by the membrane-bound NADPH oxidase Duox – , activation of macrophage-like hemocytes , secretion of Eiger by hemocytes , Eiger-dependent activation of JNK in epithelial disc and further activation of Dronc by JNK ( Fogarty et al . , 2016 ) ( reviewed by [Diwanji and Bergmann , 2017a; Diwanji and Bergmann , 2017b] ) . Therefore , similar to the scrib−/− RasV12 case , Eiger and JNK signaling have proliferation- and growth-promoting functions in this ‘undead’ AiP model . These similarities prompted us to investigate the role of ROS and caspases for tumor growth of scrib−/− RasV12 clones in Drosophila . We report that oncogenic Ras switches the pro-apoptotic activity of caspases into a tumor-promoting one and thereby maintains scrib−/− RasV12 cells in an ‘undead’-like state . Consistently , inhibition of caspases blocks tumor growth and tissue invasion . The tumor-promoting function of apoptotic caspases is dependent on the generation of intra- and extracellular ROS which are required for neoplastic behavior of scrib−/− RasV12 clones . Furthermore , caspase-induced ROS are essential for the recruitment and activation of hemocytes at scrib−/− RasV12 mosaic discs . Hemocytes signal back to tumorous epithelial cells to stimulate JNK signaling which further promotes caspase activity . Thus , these events constitute a feedback amplification loop which is necessary for neoplastic activity of scrib−/− RasV12 cells . This work extends previous models about the conversion of Eiger and JNK signaling from anti-tumor to pro-tumor roles by oncogenic Ras and identifies caspases as essential components of this switch . In conclusion , although apoptotic caspases are usually considered to be tumor suppressors , under certain conditions , for example in the presence of oncogenic RasV12 in scrib mutant cells , they can also adopt a tumor-promoting role . 
Communication through body gestures permeates our daily life . Efficient perception of the message therein reflects one’s social cognitive competency . Here we report that such competency is manifested temporally as shortened subjective duration of social interactions: motion sequences showing agents acting communicatively are perceived to be significantly shorter in duration as compared with those acting noncommunicatively . The strength of this effect is negatively correlated with one’s autistic-like tendency . Critically , intranasal oxytocin administration restores the temporal compression effect in socially less proficient individuals , whereas the administration of atosiban , a competitive antagonist of oxytocin , diminishes the effect in socially proficient individuals . These findings indicate that perceived time , rather than being a faithful representation of physical time , is highly idiosyncratic and ingrained with one’s personality trait . Moreover , they suggest that oxytocin is involved in mediating time perception of social interaction , further supporting the role of oxytocin in human social cognition .  As a joke , Albert Einstein once gave this picture to explain his theory of relativity: “Put your hand on a hot stove for a minute , and it seems like an hour . Sit with a pretty girl for an hour , and it seems like a minute . That's relativity . ” This seemingly intuitive picture has no bearing on the structure of space-time , yet nicely illustrates the now established finding that mental time deviates , sometimes significantly , from physical time ( Eagleman , 2008 ) . To date , the deviation between our experienced time and the physical time has mostly been attributed to sensory properties of the external stimuli ( Eagleman , 2008 ) and their context ( Shi et al . , 2013 ) . It has been proposed that subjective time is ‘warped’ by the neural energy involved in representing sensory inputs ( Eagleman and Pariyadath , 2009; Zhou et al . , 2018 ) . For instance , intense and/or moving stimuli are generally experienced as longer in duration ( Fraisse , 1984 ) as they evoke stronger perceptual responses in cortical neurons ( Mayo and Sommer , 2013 ) . Little is known as to what role , if any , we the experiencers play in the time we experience . Considering our gregarious nature and the ubiquity of social interactions in daily life , we set out to probe this issue by examining time perception of social interactions and the inter-individual differences therein . An important medium of social interaction is body gestures , from which most humans efficiently extract others’ attitudes and intentions even when the gestures are portrayed by only a handful of point lights attached to the head and major joints ( Johansson , 1973 ) . Such efficacy is considered evolutionarily endowed –– Human newborns and infants exhibit a predisposition to attend to the motions of biological entities ( i . e . biological motion ) ( Fox and McDaniel , 1982; Simion et al . , 2008 ) ; and the perception of biological motion engages a specific network of distributed neural areas , particularly the superior temporal sulcus ( STS ) ( Grossman et al . , 2005; Grossman and Blake , 2002; Vaina et al . , 2001 ) that plays an important role in social perception in both monkeys and humans ( Allison et al . , 2000 ) . Meanwhile , inter-individual variation is noteworthy . People with autism characterized by impaired social interaction and communication show both a deficit of biological motion perception ( Blake et al . , 2003; Klin et al . , 2009 ) and abnormalities in the STS ( Zilbovicius et al . , 2006 ) . Social proficiency varies widely even among neurotypical individuals , and is manifested behaviorally as a stable personality trait ( Digman , 1990 ) . This inter-individual variance has been associated with plasma concentrations of oxytocin , a well-documented prosocial neuropeptide , as well as polymorphisms of its receptor gene OXTR ( Andari et al . , 2014; Donaldson and Young , 2008; Modahl et al . , 1998; Parker et al . , 2014; Skuse et al . , 2014; Tost et al . , 2010 ) . Likely through interactions with endogenous oxytocin , intranasally administered oxytocin ( Dal Monte et al . , 2014; Freeman et al . , 2016; Lee and Weerts , 2016; Striepens et al . , 2013 ) is found to alter the processing of social stimuli including biological motion in manners that depend on one’s social proficiency ( Bartz et al . , 2011; Kéri and Benedek , 2009 ) as well as blood oxytocin concentration ( Parker et al . , 2017 ) . There has been limited research on the perceptual processing of social interaction between biological entities , particularly as depicted in biological motion displays . Nonetheless , social interaction is far beyond the movements of individuals . In its simplest form , it involves two agents acting in a meaningful manner: one agent executes a gesture , the other recognizes it and acts accordingly . Temporally adjacent actions generally tend to be inferred as a causal sequence and hence communicative ( Lagnado and Sloman , 2006 ) . But ultimately that social ‘meaning’ is derived from the observer’s interpretations of the agents’ actions and the relationship in between , and is , to a certain degree , subjective in nature . The present study aimed to address the effect of perceived social interaction on subjective time and its relationship with one’s intrinsic social proficiency . In a series of experiments , we carefully manipulated point-light displays of acting agents to dissociate the perception of social interaction and that of biological motion . We assessed temporal perception of such displays in individuals varying in social proficiency , and critically examined the role of oxytocin in this process . Given the aforementioned relationships among social proficiency , oxytocin and neural processing of social stimuli , our hypothesis was that both social proficiency , which reflects endogenous oxytocin level , and exogenous manipulations of oxytocin level would influence the neural efficacy in processing social interactions , and thereby modulate the subjective time of perceived social interactions . 
The interaction between the SARS-CoV-2 virus Spike protein receptor binding domain ( RBD ) and the ACE2 cell surface protein is required for viral infection of cells . Mutations in the RBD are present in SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern that have emerged independently worldwide . For example , the B . 1 . 1 . 7 lineage has a mutation ( N501Y ) in its Spike RBD that enhances binding to ACE2 . There are also ACE2 alleles in humans with mutations in the RBD binding site . Here we perform a detailed affinity and kinetics analysis of the effect of five common RBD mutations ( K417N , K417T , N501Y , E484K , and S477N ) and two common ACE2 mutations ( S19P and K26R ) on the RBD/ACE2 interaction . We analysed the effects of individual RBD mutations and combinations found in new SARS-CoV-2 Alpha ( B . 1 . 1 . 7 ) , Beta ( B . 1 . 351 ) , and Gamma ( P1 ) variants . Most of these mutations increased the affinity of the RBD/ACE2 interaction . The exceptions were mutations K417N/T , which decreased the affinity . Taken together with other studies , our results suggest that the N501Y and S477N mutations enhance transmission primarily by enhancing binding , the K417N/T mutations facilitate immune escape , and the E484K mutation enhances binding and immune escape .  Since its identification in 2019 , a coronavirus able to induce a severe acute respiratory syndrome in humans , SARS-CoV-2 , has resulted in arguably the most severe infectious disease pandemic in 100 years . To date , more than 135 million people have been infected , resulting in the deaths from the resulting disease , COVID-19 , of more than 3 million people ( WHO , 2021 ) , and measures introduced to control spread have had harmful social and economic impacts . Fortunately , effective vaccines have been developed , and a global vaccination programme is underway ( Mahase , 2021 ) . New SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern are emerging that are making containment of the pandemic more difficult , perhaps by increasing transmissibility of the virus ( Davies et al . , 2021; Korber et al . , 2020; Volz et al . , 2021b; Volz et al . , 2021b; Washington et al . , 2021 ) and/or its resistance to protective immunity induced by previous infection or vaccines ( Darby and Hiscox , 2021; Dejnirattisai et al . , 2021; Garcia-Beltran et al . , 2021; Madhi et al . , 2021a; Madhi et al . , 2021b; Mahase , 2021; Volz et al . , 2021b; Volz et al . , 2021b ) . The SARS-CoV-2 virus enters cells following an interaction between the Spike ( S ) protein on its surface with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 ( ACE2 ) on cell surfaces ( V’kovski et al . , 2021 ) . The receptor-binding domain ( RBD ) of the Spike protein binds the membrane-distal portion of the ACE2 protein . The S protein forms a homotrimer , which is cleaved shortly after synthesis into two fragments that remain associated non-covalently: S1 , which contains the RBD , and S2 , which mediates membrane fusion following the binding of Spike to ACE2 ( V’kovski et al . , 2021 ) . During the pandemic , mutations have appeared in the Spike protein that may increase transmissibility ( Davies et al . , 2021; Korber et al . , 2020; Richard et al . , 2021; Volz et al . , 2021b; Volz et al . , 2021b; Washington et al . , 2021 ) . One that emerged early in Europe , D614G , and quickly became dominant globally ( Korber et al . , 2020 ) , increases the density of intact Spike trimer on the virus surface by preventing premature dissociation of S1 from S2 following cleavage ( Zhang et al . , 2021; Zhang et al . , 2020 ) . A later mutation , N501Y , which has appeared in multiple lineages , lies within the RBD , and increases its affinity for ACE2 ( Starr et al . , 2020; Supasa et al . , 2021 ) . These findings suggest that mutations that directly or indirectly enhance Spike binding to ACE2 may increase transmissibility . Prior infection by SARS-CoV-2 and current vaccines induce antibody responses to the Spike protein , and most neutralising antibodies appear to bind to the Spike RBD ( Garcia-Beltran et al . , 2021; Greaney et al . , 2021a; Rogers et al . , 2020 ) . Some variants of concern have mutations in their RBD that confer resistance to neutralising antibodies ( Darby and Hiscox , 2021; Dejnirattisai et al . , 2021; Garcia-Beltran et al . , 2021; Madhi et al . , 2021a; Madhi et al . , 2021b; Mahase , 2021 ) . What is less clear is the precise effect of these mutations on the affinity and kinetics of the binding of RBD to ACE2 . Previous studies of the interaction between the Spike RBD and ACE2 have produced a wide range of affinity and kinetic estimates under conditions ( e . g . temperature ) that are not always well defined ( Lei et al . , 2020; Shang et al . , 2020; Supasa et al . , 2021; Wrapp et al . , 2020; Zhang et al . , 2021; Zhang et al . , 2020 ) . Precise information is needed to assess the extent to which RBD mutations have been selected because they enhance ACE2 binding or facilitate immune evasion . In this study , we undertook a detailed affinity and kinetic analysis of the interaction between Spike RBD and ACE2 at a physiological temperature ( 37°C ) , taking care to avoid common pitfalls . We used this optimised approach to analyse the effect of important common mutations identified in variants of RBD and ACE2 . Both mutations of ACE2 ( S19P , K26R ) and most of the mutations of RBD ( N501Y , E484K , and S477N ) enhanced the interaction , with one RBD mutation ( N501Y ) increasing the affinity by ~10-fold . Increased binding was the result of decreases in dissociation rate constants ( N501Y , S477N ) and/or increases in association rate constants ( N501Y , E484K ) . Although the K417N/T mutations found in the South African ( B . 1 . 351 ) and Brazilian ( P . 1 ) variants both decreased the affinity , the affinity-enhancing N501Y and E484K mutations that are also present in both variants confer a net ~4-fold increase in the affinity of their RBDs for ACE2 . 
Gene–gene interactions shape complex phenotypes and modify the effects of mutations during development and disease . The effects of statistical gene–gene interactions on phenotypes have been used to assign genes to functional modules . However , directional , epistatic interactions , which reflect regulatory relationships between genes , have been challenging to map at large-scale . Here , we used combinatorial RNA interference and automated single-cell phenotyping to generate a large genetic interaction map for 21 phenotypic features of Drosophila cells . We devised a method that combines genetic interactions on multiple phenotypes to reveal directional relationships . This network reconstructed the sequence of protein activities in mitosis . Moreover , it revealed that the Ras pathway interacts with the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodelling complex , an interaction that we show is conserved in human cancer cells . Our study presents a powerful approach for reconstructing directional regulatory networks and provides a resource for the interpretation of functional consequences of genetic alterations .  Genes display epistatic ( genetic ) interactions , whereby the presence of one genetic variant can mask , alleviate or amplify the phenotypic effect of other variants ( Bateson , 1907 ) . Genetic interactions have profound effects during normal development and in disease ( Moore , 2003; Ashworth et al . , 2011 ) . Two genes show a genetic interaction if the phenotype of allele combinations ( or double perturbations ) is different from the expected combination of the individual phenotypes; this statistical definition of genetic interactions was introduced by Fisher ( 1918 ) . Mathematically , Fisher defined a genetic interaction as an interaction term between genetic covariates in a ( statistical ) linear model for a phenotype . Genetic interactions occur , for example , when a cellular process is controlled by two parallel pathways: loss of gene products in one pathway are buffered , and only when the both pathways are disturbed , a phenotype is observed . Conversely , the phenotype of closely collaborating proteins , for example , in a protein complex , is often not further enhanced when more than one of its gene products are depleted ( Dixon et al . , 2009 ) . Systematic screens for genetic interactions have been performed in yeast ( Tong et al . , 2004; Schuldiner et al . , 2005; Costanzo et al . , 2010; Ryan et al . , 2012 ) , Escherichia coli ( Nichols et al . , 2011; Babu et al . , 2014 ) , Caenorhabditis elegans ( Lehner et al . , 2006 ) and metazoan cells ( Bakal et al . , 2008; Horn et al . , 2011; Bassik et al . , 2013; Laufer et al . , 2013; Roguev et al . , 2013 ) . These approaches have successfully unravelled symmetric relationships , such as pathway and complex co-membership ( Baryshnikova et al . , 2013 ) . However , the observation of a statistical genetic interaction implies no directionality between the genes: it does not take into account a possible order of relationships , for example , their temporal relation in a signalling cascade . Directionality is present if one gene product positively or negatively regulates the activity of the other , if its function temporally precedes that of the other , or if its function is a necessary requirement for the action of the other . Such directional genetic interactions were described by Bateson ( 1907 ) , and observing epistatic interactions between genes has been a powerful method to organise them into functional pathways ( Phillips , 2008 ) . In special cases , for example , in which one of the two interrogated genes has no phenotype itself , it has been possible to infer directionality by comparing the gene–gene phenotype to the single gene phenotype ( Drees et al . , 2005; St Onge et al . , 2007 ) . However , in many cases genes that show genetic interactions have phenotypes themselves , and more general methods to predict directionalities have been lacking . We report the largest map of multi-phenotype genetic interaction profiles in metazoan cells to date . Our map comprises 1367 Drosophila genes implicated in cellular processes including signalling , chromatin and cell cycle regulation . We quantitatively scored 21 phenotypes in cultured cells using automated imaging . First , we inferred gene functions based on statistical genetic interactions , predicted protein complexes and clustered processes by similarity . Moreover , in a novel analytical approach , we employ the multivariate nature of the phenotypes to compute directional genetic interactions , and we show that they reveal the logical and temporal dependencies between functional modules . For example , we were able to reconstruct the temporal order in which protein complexes are active during mitosis . Furthermore , we demonstrate an epistatic relationship between Ras/MAPK signalling and SWI/SNF regulators of chromatin remodelling , which we confirmed in vivo . We demonstrate that directional genetic interactions can be identified at a large scale and mapped to other genomic data sets to identify regulatory relationships . 
Heterostyly is a wide-spread floral adaptation to promote outbreeding , yet its genetic basis and evolutionary origin remain poorly understood . In Primula ( primroses ) , heterostyly is controlled by the S-locus supergene that determines the reciprocal arrangement of reproductive organs and incompatibility between the two morphs . However , the identities of the component genes remain unknown . Here , we identify the Primula CYP734A50 gene , encoding a putative brassinosteroid-degrading enzyme , as the G locus that determines the style-length dimorphism . CYP734A50 is only present on the short-styled S-morph haplotype , it is specifically expressed in S-morph styles , and its loss or inactivation leads to long styles . The gene arose by a duplication specific to the Primulaceae lineage and shows an accelerated rate of molecular evolution . Thus , our results provide a mechanistic explanation for the Primula style-length dimorphism and begin to shed light on the evolution of the S-locus as a prime model for a complex plant supergene .  Heterostyly is a prominent , wide-spread adaptation to promote outbreeding ( Barrett , 2002 , 1992 ) . Individuals of heterostylous species belong to two or three morphs with reciprocal reproductive-organ arrangement and intra-morph incompatibility ( Barrett , 2002 ) . Since Darwin’s seminal book on The different forms of flowers on plants of the same species ( Darwin , 1877 ) , Primula ( primroses ) has been the prime model for studying heterostyly ( Barrett , 1992; Gilmartin , 2015; Weller , 2009 ) . Heterostyly in Primula is controlled by the S-locus supergene that likely comprises five tightly linked genes , determining style length ( the so-called G locus ) , anther height , pollen size and male and female intra-morph incompatibility ( Figure 1A; Figure 1—figure supplement 1 ) ( Ernst , 1936; Lewis and Jones , 1992 ) . The S-morph haplotype carries dominant alleles at all loci , resulting in short styles due to reduced cell elongation ( Webster and Gilmartin , 2006 ) and anthers at the mouth of the flower; the L-morph haplotype carries the recessive alleles , causing long styles and low anthers . S-morphs are heterozygous for the two haplotypes , and L-morphs homozygous recessive; the absence of homozygotes for the S-morph haplotype likely results from a recessive lethal mutation on this haplotype ( Kurian and Richards , 1997 ) . Efficient fertilization is only possible in inter-morph crosses . A candidate for a causal distyly gene has been described from Fagopyrum ( Yasui et al . , 2012 ) ; also , S-locus linked sequences have been identified from Primula and Turnera ( Labonne and Shore , 2011; Labonne et al . , 2009; Li et al . , 2007 , 2015; Nowak et al . , 2015 ) . However , in Primula no causal distyly gene has been isolated , and no plausible mechanistic explanation for style length dimorphism is available in any species , hampering progress in understanding the evolution of the S-locus supergene . 10 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 003Figure 1 . Identification of CYP734A50 as an S-morph and style-specific gene . ( A ) Dissected P . veris L- ( left ) and S-morph flowers ( right ) , showing reciprocal differences in style length and anther position ( yellow arrowheads ) . Blue arrowheads indicate stigmas on top of styles . ( B ) Expression levels of CYP734A50 in P . veris based on RNA-seq ( n = 3 biological replicates each ) . See also Figure 1—source data 1 . ( C ) Expression of CYP734A50 and TUBULIN in dissected floral organs . Full gel images and qRT-PCR quantification based on three biological replicates are shown in Figure 1—figure supplement 2 and 3 . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 004Figure 1—source data 1 . Candidates for S-morph style-specific genes . TPM values and annotations are indicated for candidate transcripts showing significantly ( p<0 . 05 ) higher expression in S-morph styles than in S-morph corolla tubes and in either L-morph styles or corolla tubes . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 005Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Schematic of the genetic control of heterostyly in Primula . ( A ) Schematic representation of L-morph ( left ) and S-morph flowers ( right ) and the classic model of corresponding S-locus genotypes , with the functions of individual genes indicated . Open ellipses represent anthers . The order of G , A and P at the S-locus is that suggested by Kurian and Richards ( 1997 ) for Primula sect . Primula; in Primula subgenus Auriculastrum the order appears to be GPA ( Lewis and Jones , 1992 ) . Also note that the positions of Gm and Pm relative to G and to P are unknown , respectively ( indicated by a slash ) . ( B ) Schematic representation of three types of long homostyles and their S-locus genotypes arising from recombination within the S-locus ( left ) , from mutation of the dominant G allele ( middle ) , and from silencing the G and Gm genes ( right ) . ( C ) Proposed model of the S-locus indicating the identity of CYP734A50 to the dominant G allele and its absence from the recessive haplotype . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 00510 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 006Figure 1—figure supplement 2 . Style-specific expression of CYP734A50 . Expression of CYP734A50 and TUBULIN in dissected floral organs of L- and S-morph plants of the indicated species as determined by RT-PCR . Three biological replicate sets of dissected flowers were analysed . Arrowhead marks 300 bp band in DNA-size standard . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 00610 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 007Figure 1—figure supplement 3 . Quantification of style-specific expression of CYP734A50 . Expression of CYP734A50 in dissected floral organs of L- and S-morph plants of P . veris ( left ) and P . vulgaris ( right ) as determined by qRT-PCR , normalized to α-TUBULIN . Values are mean ± SD from three biological replicates . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 17956 . 007 
Kisspeptin ( Kiss1 ) and neurokinin B ( NKB ) neurocircuits are essential for pubertal development and fertility . Kisspeptin neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus ( Kiss1ARH ) co-express Kiss1 , NKB , dynorphin and glutamate and are postulated to provide an episodic , excitatory drive to gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 ( GnRH ) neurons , the synaptic mechanisms of which are unknown . We characterized the cellular basis for synchronized Kiss1ARH neuronal activity using optogenetics , whole-cell electrophysiology , molecular pharmacology and single cell RT-PCR in mice . High-frequency photostimulation of Kiss1ARH neurons evoked local release of excitatory ( NKB ) and inhibitory ( dynorphin ) neuropeptides , which were found to synchronize the Kiss1ARH neuronal firing . The light-evoked synchronous activity caused robust excitation of GnRH neurons by a synaptic mechanism that also involved glutamatergic input to preoptic Kiss1 neurons from Kiss1ARH neurons . We propose that Kiss1ARH neurons play a dual role of driving episodic secretion of GnRH through the differential release of peptide and amino acid neurotransmitters to coordinate reproductive function .  Pulsatile secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 ( GnRH ) , and consequently pulsatile release of pituitary luteinizing hormone ( LH ) , is required for normal reproductive function , and there is increasing evidence that kisspeptin ( Kiss1 ) neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus ( ARH ) are a component of the “GnRH pulse generator” ( Navarro et al . , 2009; Navarro et al . , 2011a; Lehman et al . , 2010a; Okamura et al . , 2013 ) . The “GnRH pulse generator” consists of bursts of multiunit activity ( MUA ) in the arcuate nucleus that are timed with pulses of LH secretion , and this phenomenon has been demonstrated in the monkey ( Knobil , 1989 ) , goat ( Wakabayashi et al . , 2010; Okamura et al . , 2013 ) , and rat ( Kimura et al . , 1991; Kinsey-Jones et al . , 2008 ) . In mammals , two major populations of kisspeptin-synthesizing neurons exist - one in the anterior preoptic area and the other in the ARH ( Lehman et al . , 2010b ) . In rodents , the anterior preoptic cell group is a periventricular continuum within the anteroventral periventricular nucleus ( AVPV ) and the periventricular preoptic nucleus ( PeN ) and is responsible for the GnRH/LH surge ( Clarkson and Herbison , 2006 ) . Both the AVPV/PeN and ARH Kiss1 neurons ( Kiss1AVPV/PeN; Kiss1ARH ) co-express other peptide and amino acid neurotransmitters , and the Kiss1ARH neurons co-synthesize and potentially co-release neurokinin B ( NKB ) and dynorphin ( Dyn ) in most mammals ( Goodman et al . , 2007; Navarro et al . , 2011b; Bartzen-Sprauer et al . , 2014 ) , forming the basis for the “KNDy neuron” terminology ( Lehman et al . , 2010a ) . Importantly , Kiss1 , NKB and their respective receptors are absolutely essential for pubertal development and the control of reproduction ( Seminara et al . , 2003; d'Anglemont de Tassigny et al . , 2007; Topaloglu et al . , 2009 ) . Morphological studies have provided evidence that Kiss1ARH neurons can communicate with each other ( Lehman et al . , 2010a; Rance et al . , 2010; Navarro et al . , 2011a; Navarro et al . , 2011b ) , and NKB/tachykinin receptor 3 ( Tacr3 ) and Dyn/κ-opioid receptor ( KOR ) signaling have been proposed to play a critical role in the generation of episodic GnRH/LH pulses via direct and synchronized action on GnRH nerve terminals in the median eminence ( Navarro et al . , 2009; Ohkura et al . , 2009; Wakabayashi et al . , 2010 ) . Anatomical tract-tracing studies have shown that Kiss1ARH neurons are bilaterally interconnected within the ARH and project to GnRH terminals in the median eminence and to Kiss1AVPV/PeN neurons ( Rance et al . , 2010; Yip et al . , 2015 ) . Therefore , we hypothesized that Kiss1ARH neurons could coordinate ( synchronize ) their activity to drive GnRH secretion via these contralateral projections . Recent findings also indicate that Kiss1ARH neurons co-express the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 ( vGluT2 ) and release the neurotransmitter glutamate ( Cravo et al . , 2011; Nestor et al . , 2016 ) , which could also provide an excitatory drive to hypothalamic neurons ( Van den Pol et al . , 1990 ) . Currently , we explored the synaptic mechanisms by which Kiss1ARH neurons synchronize their burst firing activity and how their unified activity was conveyed to the rostral Kiss 1AVPV/PeN neurons and hence excitation of GnRH neurons . We used a combination of whole-cell patch recording , optogenetics , molecular pharmacology and single cell RT-PCR to elucidate the underlying synaptic mechanisms at multiple sites . We discovered that high-frequency photoactivation of Kiss1ARH neurons induced a NKB-mediated slow excitatory postsynaptic potential ( EPSP ) , which was modulated by co-released dynorphin , and caused synchronization of Kiss1ARH neurons . Interestingly , activation of Kiss1ARH neurons co-released glutamate that excited the rostral Kiss1AVPV/PeN neurons . The combination of synchronization and unified excitation of Kiss1AVPV/PeN neurons resulted in robust excitation of GnRH neurons . 
Bone morphogenic protein ( BMP ) signalling contributes towards maintenance of pluripotency and favours mesodermal over neural fates upon differentiation , but the mechanisms by which BMP controls differentiation are not well understood . We report that BMP regulates differentiation by blocking downregulation of Cdh1 , an event that accompanies the earliest stages of neural and mesodermal differentiation . We find that loss of Cdh1 is a limiting requirement for differentiation of pluripotent cells , and that experimental suppression of Cdh1 activity rescues the BMP-imposed block to differentiation . We further show that BMP acts prior to and independently of Cdh1 to prime pluripotent cells for mesoderm differentiation , thus helping to reinforce the block to neural differentiation . We conclude that differentiation depends not only on exposure to appropriate extrinsic cues but also on morphogenetic events that control receptivity to those differentiation cues , and we explain how a key pluripotency signal , BMP , feeds into this control mechanism .  The events that drive the transition from pluripotency to lineage commitment remain poorly understood . It has been known for many years that BMP signalling protects pluripotency and suppresses neural specification ( Ying et al . , 2003a; Stern , 2006; Di-Gregorio et al . , 2007 ) , but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear . BMP signalling is also required for the formation of mesoderm in vivo ( Mishina et al . , 1995; Winnier et al . , 1995; Lawson et al . , 1999; Beppu et al . , 2000; Davis et al . , 2004 ) , and BMP is commonly used to induce mesoderm from embryonic stem ( ES ) cells ( Murry and Keller , 2008 ) . However , it is not clear how the effects of BMP on mesoderm differentiation relate to its pro-pluripotency and anti-neural effects: are these separable independent events or do they represent the outcomes of one common mechanism ? This question underlines our poor understanding of the mechanisms by which BMP influences neural and mesodermal specification . BMP acts through transcriptional upregulation of Inhibitor of Differentiation ( Id ) factors ( Ying et al . , 2003a; Zhang et al . , 2010 ) in order to prevent neural differentiation . Id factors generally act as dominant negative inhibitors of the bHLH family of transcription factors ( Norton , 2000 ) , but the mechanism by which Id proteins block neural induction is not known . Furthermore , it is not clear to what extent the pro-mesoderm effect of BMP within the epiblast is mediated by Id or by other BMP target genes: redundancy between the four Id family members may mask gastrulation phenotypes in Id mutants . We set out to examine more closely the effects of BMP and Id1 on neural and mesoderm differentiation by taking advantage of an ES cell differentiation system , which allows differentiation to be carefully monitored in a well-defined environment ( Ying and Smith , 2003 ) , and by using a reporter strategy to ask which cells usually express Id1 during early development . We find an unanticipated ability of BMP/Id to block differentiation by maintaining the expression of the cell adhesion molecule E-Cadherin ( Cdh1 ) . We find that loss of Cdh1 is tightly associated with neural as well as mesodermal differentiation and that this change in Cdh1 is a limiting requirement for neural differentiation . A number of recent reports ( Chou et al . , 2008; Soncin et al . , 2009; Li et al . , 2010; Redmer et al . , 2011; del Valle et al . , 2013; Faunes et al . , 2013 ) suggest that Cdh1 helps protect pluripotency . Despite this emerging appreciation of Cdh1 as a regulator of the pluripotent state , the upstream regulators of Cdh1 in pluripotent cells have not been reported . BMP favours mesenchymal to epithelial transitions in other contexts ( Kondo et al . , 2004; Samavarchi-Tehrani et al . , 2010 ) , but its ability to control Cdh1 activity during early fate specification has not previously been appreciated . We also find that BMP acts through Id1 to impose a proximal posterior identity on epiblast cells , priming them for mesodermal fates whilst transiently restraining them from overt mesoderm differentiation . Id1 may therefore play an early role in anterior-posterior ( AP ) patterning and mesoderm priming , independent from any effect on overt mesoderm differentiation . This helps to reconcile why BMP is required both for mesoderm differentiation and for the maintenance of pluripotency . Taken together , our data help to unify the distinct effects of BMP signalling during differentiation of pluripotent cells . BMP maintains high levels of Cdh1 , which help to protect the pluripotent state , whilst imposing a posterior identity that ultimately favours mesodermal over neural differentiation . 
The two centrioles of the centrosome in quiescent cells are inherently asymmetric structures that differ in age , morphology and function . How these asymmetric properties are established and maintained during quiescence remains unknown . Here , we show that a daughter centriole-associated ciliopathy protein , Cep120 , plays a critical inhibitory role at daughter centrioles . Depletion of Cep120 in quiescent mouse and human cells causes accumulation of pericentriolar material ( PCM ) components including pericentrin , Cdk5Rap2 , ninein and Cep170 . The elevated PCM levels result in increased microtubule-nucleation activity at the centrosome . Consequently , loss of Cep120 leads to aberrant dynein-dependent trafficking of centrosomal proteins , dispersal of centriolar satellites , and defective ciliary assembly and signaling . Our results indicate that Cep120 helps to maintain centrosome homeostasis by inhibiting untimely maturation of the daughter centriole , and defines a potentially new molecular defect underlying the pathogenesis of ciliopathies such as Jeune Asphyxiating Thoracic Dystrophy and Joubert syndrome .  The centrosome is the major microtubule-organizing center ( MTOC ) in animal cells , which helps regulate the assembly of the interphase microtubule array and mitotic spindle . The centrosome in a quiescent cell is composed of a pair of centrioles surrounded by a proteinaceous matrix referred to as pericentriolar material ( PCM ) , involved in microtubule nucleation and anchoring . The two centrioles in quiescent cells differ in age , structure and function . The older of the two was assembled at least two cell cycles ago and is commonly called the ‘mother’ centriole ( MC ) . The younger one , which was assembled in the previous cell cycle , is called the ‘daughter’ centriole ( DC ) . Most activities at the centrosome are regulated and mediated by the mother centriole . For example , the MC acts as the template for the assembly of the primary cilium , an essential chemosensory organelle ( Malicki and Johnson , 2017 ) . The MC possesses distinct sets of projections called distal appendages that confer the ability to dock at the plasma membrane and initiate ciliogenesis , and subdistal appendages that help organize the PCM , nucleate and anchor microtubules ( Garcia and Reiter , 2016 ) . In contrast , the DC lacks distal and subdistal appendages , does not form a cilium , and possesses significantly less PCM and thus MTOC activity . How and why the DC is prohibited from recruiting these protein complexes remains a mystery . The predominant theory is that the DC undergoes structural and biochemical modifications during the cell cycle that confers the ability to acquire these traits , a multi-step process classically referred to as ‘maturation’ ( Hoyer-Fender , 2010 ) . However , recent studies suggest that this model may be too simplistic ( Kong et al . , 2014; Wang et al . , 2011 ) . So , how is the DC prohibited from recruiting these protein complexes during quiescence ? We previously identified Cep120 as a centrosomal protein that is preferentially enriched on the DC of quiescent cells ( Mahjoub et al . , 2010 ) . This asymmetric localization between the mother and daughter centriole was relieved coincident with new procentriole assembly in S-phase , where Cep120 became enriched on the procentrioles ( [Mahjoub et al . , 2010]; summarized in Figure 1A ) . Thus , Cep120 associates with the youngest generation of centrioles at all stages of the cell cycle , although some of the protein remains on the MC ( [Mahjoub et al . , 2010]; Figure 1A ) . To determine the functional significance of Cep120 enrichment on procentrioles , we depleted the protein and analyzed the consequences on centriole assembly . We found that Cep120 was required for procentriole formation in S-phase of cycling cells , and for nascent centriole assembly in multiciliated cells ( Mahjoub et al . , 2010 ) , revealing a conserved role for Cep120 in centriole formation . Subsequent studies helped to define the role of Cep120 in the molecular pathways regulating procentriole assembly ( Comartin et al . , 2013; Lin et al . , 2013 ) . More recently , mutations in Cep120 were identified in patients with ciliopathy phenotypes , namely Joubert syndrome and Jeune Asphyxiating Thoracic Dystrophy ( Roosing et al . , 2016; Shaheen et al . , 2015 ) , further highlighting a critical role in centriole-centrosome-cilia biology . However , one major question remains unanswered: what is the functional significance of the enrichment of Cep120 on the DC of quiescent cells , at a stage of the cell cycle when centriole duplication is not occurring ? 
Neuron-glia interactions play a critical role in the maturation of neural circuits; however , little is known about the pathways that mediate their communication in the developing CNS . We investigated neuron-glia signaling in the developing retina , where we demonstrate that retinal waves reliably induce calcium transients in Müller glial cells ( MCs ) . During cholinergic waves , MC calcium transients were blocked by muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists , whereas during glutamatergic waves , MC calcium transients were inhibited by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists , indicating that the responsiveness of MCs changes to match the neurotransmitter used to support retinal waves . Using an optical glutamate sensor we show that the decline in MC calcium transients is caused by a reduction in the amount of glutamate reaching MCs . Together , these studies indicate that neurons and MCs exhibit correlated activity during a critical period of retinal maturation that is enabled by neurotransmitter spillover from retinal synapses .  There is rich research history demonstrating the important role glial cells play in developing and maintaining neural circuits ( Garrido , 2013 ) . In the mature brain , glial cells provide structural scaffolding and create physical barriers that compartmentalize synapses and limit diffusion of neurotransmitters . In addition , glial cells express a variety of neurotransmitter receptors . Activation of glial receptors causes increases in intracellular calcium that in turn may lead to the secretion of factors that influence circuit function ( Haydon and Nedergaard , 2015 ) . In the developing brain , glial cells secrete factors that are important for neuronal differentiation , migration , axonal pathfinding and synaptogenesis ( Clarke and Barres , 2013; Garrido , 2013; Chung et al . , 2015 ) . However , the mechanisms that are used for neuron-glial signaling in the developing CNS remain poorly defined . There are three types of glial cells in the retina: Müller cells ( MCs ) , astrocytes , and microglial cells . MCs , the principal glial cells of the retina , stretch radially across its thickness from the outer limiting membrane to the inner limiting membrane , sending processes throughout the inner and outer plexiform layers . MC processes envelop synapses of every neuron type , placing these cells in an ideal position to receive and respond to neuronal signals ( Newman and Reichenbach , 1996; Newman , 2004 , 2005; Reichenbach and Bringmann , 2013 ) . In adult retina , MCs maintain retinal homeostasis and integrity ( Byrne et al . , 2013 ) , and more recently they have been implicated in delivery of retinol to replenish cone opsin chromophore ( Xue et al . , 2015 ) . In zebrafish , MC ablation does not affect the laminar organization of the inner plexiform layer ( IPL , Randlett et al . , 2013 ) or the structure or organization of synapses in the outer plexiform layer ( Williams et al . , 2010 ) , in sharp contrast to ablation of MCs in developing ( Dubois-Dauphin et al . , 2000 ) and adult mice ( Byrne et al . , 2013; Shen et al . , 2012 ) , which leads to dramatic rearrangements retinal structure ( Byrne et al . , 2013 ) . However , unlike radial glial cells in the cortex and cerebellum , the role of MCs in retinal development has not been fully explored . MCs are the last retinal cell types to mature , integrating into neuronal circuits during the first two postnatal weeks ( Jadhav et al . , 2009; Williams et al . , 2010 ) when the inner retina is undergoing robust synaptogenesis . During this developmental period , the retina is spontaneously active , and ganglion cells ( the output cells of the retina ) exhibit depolarizations that spread laterally across the retina , a phenomenon termed retinal waves . These waves are mediated by circuits that change as the retina matures ( Blankenship and Feller , 2010 ) . From postnatal day 1 ( P1 ) to P9 , retinal waves are mediated by cholinergic circuits . As bipolar cells integrate into the circuit ( P10–P14 ) , the waves become mediated by glutamatergic signaling . At eye opening ( P14 ) , light activated signaling begins and retinal waves cease . Both cholinergic ( Ford et al . , 2012 ) and glutamatergic ( Blankenship and Feller , 2010; Firl et al . , 2013 ) retinal waves are associated with volume release of neurotransmitter , where the neurotransmitter is not restricted to the synaptic cleft , but spills out into the extracellular space , allowing activation of receptors on nearby ganglion cells . Hence , these waves provide a robust source of neurotransmitter that could mediate periodic activation of MCs during retinal development . Here we investigated if MCs participate in retinal waves as they integrate into neuronal circuits . We simultaneously performed whole-cell recordings of retinal ganglion cells ( RGCs ) and two-photon imaging of calcium indicators or glutamate sensors expressed specifically in MCs in order to investigate if neurotransmitters released during retinal waves reliably induce calcium transients in MCs . In addition , we determined which receptors mediate these neuron-glia interactions . Our results indicate that MCs express a complement of receptors that allow detection of neurotransmitters released during retinal waves , resulting in parallel activation of this glial network prior to eye opening . 
Establishing the time since death is critical in every death investigation , yet existing techniques are susceptible to a range of errors and biases . For example , forensic entomology is widely used to assess the postmortem interval ( PMI ) , but errors can range from days to months . Microbes may provide a novel method for estimating PMI that avoids many of these limitations . Here we show that postmortem microbial community changes are dramatic , measurable , and repeatable in a mouse model system , allowing PMI to be estimated within approximately 3 days over 48 days . Our results provide a detailed understanding of bacterial and microbial eukaryotic ecology within a decomposing corpse system and suggest that microbial community data can be developed into a forensic tool for estimating PMI .  Forensic science is concerned with identifying and interpreting physical evidence . Long-standing forms of physical evidence include fingerprints , bloodstains , hairs , fibers , soils , and DNA . However , any object can serve as physical evidence if it provides reliable insight into the activities associated with a death scene or crime . Physical evidence is often of critical importance to a criminal investigation because testimonial evidence , the statements provided by victims , suspects , and witnesses , is frequently incomplete and inaccurate ( Saks and Koehler , 2005 ) . To address these limitations of testimony , an investigator will compare the statements to the interpretation of physical evidence . For example , an investigator will require a suspect to provide an alibi to describe his or her whereabouts during the time period of a crime and compare their statement to mobile phone activity . One of the most difficult forms of physical evidence to establish is the amount of time that has lapsed since death , the postmortem interval ( PMI ) . Establishing the PMI is critical to every death investigation because it facilitates the identification of victims and suspects , the acceptance or rejection of suspect alibis , the distribution of death certificates , and the allocation of assets outlined in wills . However , PMI is difficult to establish because we have a relatively poor understanding of corpse decomposition . To improve the ability to estimate PMI , forensic science has incorporated an ecological perspective . When an animal dies it becomes a large nutrient resource that can support a complex and phylogenetically diverse community of organisms ( Mondor et al . , 2012 ) . As this decomposer community recycles nutrients , the corpse progresses through several forensically recognized stages of decomposition , including Fresh ( before decomposition begins ) , Active Decay , which includes Bloating and Rupture , and Advanced Decay ( Carter et al . , 2007; Parkinson et al . , 2009 ) . Biotic signatures associated with these stages of decomposition , such as the development rate of blow fly larvae ( Amendt et al . , 2007 ) , succession of insects ( Horenstein et al . , 2010 ) , and changes in the biochemistry of corpse-associated ‘gravesoil’ ( Tullis and Goff , 1987; Vass et al . , 1992; Benninger et al . , 2008; Carter et al . , 2008; Horenstein et al . , 2010 ) , can be used to estimate PMI . However , no method is successful in every scenario ( Tibbett and Carter , 2008 ) . For example , limitations of forensic entomology include uncertainty in the interval between death and egg deposition ( Tomberlin et al . , 2011 ) , lack of insects during particular weather events or seasons ( Archer and Elgar , 2003 ) , and region-specific blowfly larval growth curves and insect communities ( Gallagher et al . , 2010 ) . Using microbial community change to track the progression of decomposition may circumvent many of these limitations because microbes are ubiquitous in the environment , located on humans before death , and can be reliably quantified using high-throughput DNA sequencing . Microbes play an important role in decomposition ( Vass , 2001; Hopkins , 2008; Mondor et al . , 2012 ) . For example , from the Fresh stage to the Bloat stage , enteric microbes likely contribute to putrefaction by digesting the corpse macromolecules , which in turn generates metabolic byproducts that cause the corpse to bloat ( Mondor et al . , 2012 ) . Evans proposed that a major shift in microbial communities occurs at the end of bloat when the body cavity ruptures ( Evans , 1963 ) , as this key event likely shifts the abdominal cavity from anaerobic to aerobic . Additionally at the Rupture stage , nutrient rich body fluids are released into the environment often increasing pH ( Carter et al . , 2010 ) likely altering endogenous microbial communities . The microbiology of corpse decomposition can now be investigated in detail by utilizing sequencing advances that enable entire communities to be characterized across the timeline of decomposition . These data will not only allow us to understand the underlying microbial ecology of corpse decomposition , but also the feasibility of using microbes as evidence . We must rigorously test whether microbial community change is sufficiently measurable and directional during decomposition to allow accurate estimates of past events such as the PMI . Recently , Pechal et al . ( 2013 ) demonstrated that skin and mouth bacterial communities followed a consistent trajectory of change during decomposition of three swine corpses over 5 days . Here , we expand upon these initial promising results by characterizing microbial community change in three external sites and one invasively sampled internal site in 40 destructively sampled mouse corpses over 48 days . In addition to characterizing bacterial community change of skin samples , we provide the first high-throughput sequencing characterization of microbial communities in the abdominal cavity and corpse-associated soils . Furthermore , we present the first high-throughput sequencing characterization of microbial eukaryotic community change ( e . g . , fungi , nematodes , and amoeba ) associated with skin sites , the abdominal cavity and corpse-associated soils . We conducted a laboratory experiment to characterize temporal changes in microbial communities associated with mouse corpses as they decomposed on soil under controlled conditions for 48 days . We characterized bacteria , archaea , and microbial eukaryotes using a combination of culture-independent , high-throughput DNA sequencing approaches for each sample . To characterize the composition and diversity of bacterial and archaeal communities , we extracted DNA and sequenced partial 16S ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) genes for each sample . To characterize the microbial eukaryotic community of each sample , we sequenced partial 18S rRNA genes . To accurately characterize these highly diverse microbial communities , we sequenced ∼100 base pairs of both 16S and 18S amplicons at a depth of millions of sequences using the Illumina HiSeq platform . In order to gain species and genus level taxonomic resolution of key taxa , a much longer fragment of the rRNA gene ( roughly 800 base pairs for 16S amplicons and 1200 base pairs for 18S amplicons ) was also sequenced at a level of thousands of sequences for a subset of early and late stage decomposition samples on the Pacific Biosciences RS platform . Together , these data allowed us to assess hypotheses long-held by the forensic community about the role of microbes in corpse decomposition , and rigorously test whether changes in microbial communities are predictable over the timeline of decomposition , which is crucial for assessing whether microbes can be used as a ‘clock’ to estimate PMI . 
Despite tremendous body form diversity in nature , bilaterian animals share common sets of developmental genes that display conserved expression patterns in the embryo . Among them are the Hox genes , which define different identities along the anterior–posterior axis . Hox proteins exert their function by interaction with TALE transcription factors . Hox and TALE members are also present in some but not all non-bilaterian phyla , raising the question of how Hox–TALE interactions evolved to provide positional information . By using proteins from unicellular and multicellular lineages , we showed that these networks emerged from an ancestral generic motif present in Hox and other related protein families . Interestingly , Hox-TALE networks experienced additional and extensive molecular innovations that were likely crucial for differentiating Hox functions along body plans . Together our results highlight how homeobox gene families evolved during eukaryote evolution to eventually constitute a major patterning system in Eumetazoans .  ‘What is an animal ? ’ In 1993 , Slack et al . proposed to define an animal by the zootype ( Slack et al . , 1993 ) , a concept illustrating the strong conservation of embryonic expression profiles of developmental genes observed in different bilaterian phyla at that time . Since then , it was found that developmental genes could also display highly dissimilar expression patterns or even be absent in non-bilaterian lineages , showing that the genetic mechanisms underlying embryonic development are not universal . One major class of developmental genes that was historically considered as highly conserved in the animal kingdom is the Hox genes . Hox genes are expressed along the anteroposterior axis of all bilaterian animals , providing positional information during embryogenesis . Given their important patterning roles , Hox genes are thought to have strongly contributed to morphological diversification of bilaterian organisms during evolution . Accordingly , numerous examples have shown that modifications in Hox genes number , expression , and/or activity could correlate to morphological variations across bilaterian lineages ( Heffer and Pick , 2013 ) . The role of Hox genes suffers more ambiguity outside Bilateria , and in particular in the sister Cnidaria group . Cnidarians do contain Hox genes and have undergone a wide range of morphological radiation during evolution . However , Hox genes have neither a clear collinear nor conserved expression profile along the primary ( oral–aboral ) axis of the planula larva among different cnidarian lineages ( Finnerty et al . , 2004; Kamm et al . , 2006 ) , which renders their orthology status difficult to assign ( specially for posterior/non-anterior cnidarian Hox genes ) . A role of Hox genes in axis patterning was proposed in the hydrozoan Eleutheria dichotoma ( Jakob and Schierwater , 2007 ) , but these results are limited by the fact that functional analyses were performed in medusa , a particular developmental stage that is not shared by all cnidarian species . The role of cnidarian Hox genes during early larval stages is , however , currently unclear . Interestingly , Cnidaria is the only non-bilaterian phylum , which has a bona fide Hox repertoire , whereas others , including ctenophores , sponges , and placozoans , lack Hox genes ( Figure 1 ) . This raises the important question of how the Hox gene family acquired its crucial axial patterning functions during metazoan evolution . In Bilateria , Hox patterning functions rely on the presence of the PBC and Meis proteins , which are also present in non-bilaterian phyla ( Figure 1 ) . We thus assessed whether a Hox/PBC/Meis network could exist outside Bilateria , and if so whether or not it would rely on identical molecular rules as observed in Bilateria . 10 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 003Figure 1 . Phylogeny of Hox ( ANTP superclass ) and PBC/Meis ( TALE superclass ) proteins across eukaryote evolution . Protein motifs required for Hox/PBC/Meis network are indicated when present: homeodomain ( HD ) , hexapeptide ( HX ) , PBC-A , and MEIS-A . Absence of the member in a given group is considered as resulting from a secondary loss ( sl ) , when the ortholog is present more ancestrally . A question mark is indicated for Meis of Monosiga brevicollis because of incomplete sequence . The protein indicated in Placozoa is not coloured in blue since it is not a true Hox protein ( see main text for details ) . Examples are provided for a representative species of each group . Members of PBC and Meis classes are called Pbx or Extradenticle ( Exd ) and Meis or Homothorax ( Hth ) , respectively . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 003 Hox and PBC/Meis proteins belong to the ANTP ( Antennapedia ) and TALE ( Three amino acids loop extension ) class of homeodomain ( HD ) -containing TFs , respectively ( Saina et al . , 2009 ) . The Hox/PBC/Meis network relies on interactions between PBC and Meis proteins on one side , and on interactions between Hox and PBC proteins on the other side ( Mann et al . , 2009 ) . Some posterior vertebrate Hox members do form dimeric complexes with Meis ( Shen et al . , 1997; Williams et al . , 2005 ) , but these interactions constitute a vertebrate innovation rather than a general rule in Bilateria . Interactions between PBC and Meis occur through conserved regions localized upstream of the HD of both proteins ( called PBC-A and MEIS-A domains ) and which are thought to derive from a common ancestor domain ( Burglin , 1998 ) . These interactions allow the nuclear translocation and stability of PBC ( Abu-Shaar et al . , 1999 ) . Interactions between Hox and PBC involve a short conserved motif in Hox proteins , called the hexapeptide ( HX ) , which folds within the hydrophobic pocket formed in part by the extra-three residues of the HD of PBC ( Merabet et al . , 2009 ) . This motif contains a conserved core sequence of four residues in all but AbdB-group Hox proteins , which retain a single tryptophan residue . Additional specific signatures can also be found in the HX of some paralog groups ( Merabet et al . , 2009 ) . Recent data showed that Hox proteins could also interact with PBC partners through other more specific motifs . These alternative interaction modes can be induced by the DNA-binding of the Meis partner , eventually leading to different three-dimensional conformations that could be important for paralog-specific functions ( Galant et al . , 2002; Merabet et al . , 2007; Hudry et al . , 2012 ) . PBC and Meis representatives are found from unicellular Amoebozoa and Filasterea groups to metazoan lineages including Ctenophora and Placozoa ( Figure 1 ) . Sequence analysis shows that only one PBC or Meis representative is present , or that the protein does not contain the PBC-A or MEIS-A interaction domain in most of these lineages ( Figure 1 , Figure 2—figure supplements 1 and 2 ) . Interestingly , all protein features required for PBC/Meis partnership appeared concomitantly with the presence of Hox or Hox-like proteins in Metazoa ( Figure 1 ) . Of note , the representative species of Placozoa , Trichoplax adhaerens ( Ta ) , contains a protein that was classified as a ProtoHox ( Schierwater and Kuhn , 1998 ) or ParaHox ( Mendivil Ramos et al . , 2012 ) member ( Figure 1 ) . However , the absence of any HX motif ( Schierwater and Kuhn , 1998 ) suggests that this protein could not interact with PBC/Meis , which is confirmed later ( see last section of ‘Results’ ) . Protein sequence analysis indicates that a Hox/PBC/Meis network could first be present in Cnidaria . To test this hypothesis , we dissected the molecular properties underlying the formation of the Hox/PBC/Meis interaction network of the sea anemone Nematostella vectensis ( Nv ) , a cnidarian species exhibiting an internal symmetry organized along oral–aboral ( primary ) and directive ( secondary ) body axes ( Figure 2A ) . This analysis was performed in vitro and in vivo and completed by heterologous functional assays in vertebrate and invertebrate species . Since other members of the ANTP superclass are described to interact with PBC in Bilateria , we also searched for the molecular mechanisms that allowed the emergence of the Hox–TALE network during evolution of homeobox gene families . 10 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 004Figure 2 . Hox and TALE members are co-expressed in the endoderm of the Nematostella embryo . ( A ) Genomic organisation of Hox genes in Nematostella vectensis ( Nv ) and Drosophila melanogaster ( Dm ) , two representative species of Cnidaria and Bilateria , respectively . Embryos at the planula stage are schematized; A–P: anterior–posterior; D–V: dorsal–ventral; A–O: aboral–oral; Di: directive axis . The Nematostella embryo is oriented according to recent findings ( Sinigaglia et al . , 2013 ) . The nomenclature is calqued on ( Chourrout et al . , 2006 ) to avoid confusions with bilaterian Hox paralogs: NvHoxC ( antHox7 ) , NvHoxDa ( antHox8 ) , NvHoxDb ( antHox8a ) , NvHoxA ( antHox6 ) , NvHoxB ( antHox6a ) , NvHoxE ( antHox1a ) , NvHoxF ( antHox1 ) . The two Nematostella Hox genes under study , NvHoxB and NvHoxE , are highlighted in blue and red respectively . Note that the same colour code is used in other figures . ( B ) Sequence identity between Nematostella and Drosophila proteins . NvHoxB and NvHoxE are compared to Labial ( Lab ) and Ultrabithorax ( Ubx ) respectively . The percentage of identity is represented by a grayscale gradient . Conserved domains in bilaterian TALE proteins are indicated ( A , B , C , D ) . HX: hexapeptide . HD: homeodomain . See also Figure 2—figure supplements 1–4 . ( C ) In situ hybridization of NvPbx , NvMeis , NvHoxB and NvHoxE in a three-day-old Nematostella planula . These four genes are expressed in the endoderm ( en ) , as illustrated in ( D ) . Ec: ectoderm . NvPbx and NvMeis are illustrated in grey and black , respectively . This colour code is used in other figures . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 005Figure 2—figure supplement 1 . Protein sequence alignment of PBC members from representative species of Unikonta . Regions encompassing the PBC-A domain and homeodomain ( HD ) are highlighted in grey and yellow respectively . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 00510 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 006Figure 2—figure supplement 2 . Protein sequence alignment of Meis members from representative species of Unikonta . Regions encompassing the MEIS-A domain and homeodomain ( HD ) are highlighted in grey and yellow respectively . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 00610 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 007Figure 2—figure supplement 3 . Protein sequence alignment between NvHoxB and the Labial ( Lab ) protein from Drosophila melanogaster . Homeodomain and hexapeptide regions are highlighted in blue and red respectively . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 00710 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 008Figure 2—figure supplement 4 . Protein sequence alignment between NvHoxE and the Ultrabithorax ( Ubx ) or AbdominalB ( AbdB ) protein from Drosophila melanogaster . Homeodomain and hexapeptide regions are highlighted in blue and red respectively . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 01939 . 008 Our results show that Hox and TALE proteins from Nematostella form interaction networks and perform similar functions to their bilaterian counterparts . Although these networks rely on intricate molecular properties , they originated from an ancestral generic mode of interaction that was kept in other homebox gene families . Overall our study describes how the molecular cues underlying the Hox–TALE patterning system in Bilateria was established stepwise during eukaryote evolution . 
Previous studies tracking AMPA receptor ( AMPAR ) diffusion at synapses observed a large mobile extrasynaptic AMPAR pool . Using super-resolution microscopy , we examined how fluorophore size and photostability affected AMPAR trafficking outside of , and within , post-synaptic densities ( PSDs ) from rats . Organic fluorescent dyes ( ≈4 nm ) , quantum dots , either small ( ≈10 nm diameter; sQDs ) or big ( >20 nm; bQDs ) , were coupled to AMPARs via different-sized linkers . We find that >90% of AMPARs labeled with fluorescent dyes or sQDs were diffusing in confined nanodomains in PSDs , which were stable for 15 min or longer . Less than 10% of sQD-AMPARs were extrasynaptic and highly mobile . In contrast , 5–10% of bQD-AMPARs were in PSDs and 90–95% were extrasynaptic as previously observed . Contrary to the hypothesis that AMPAR entry is limited by the occupancy of open PSD ‘slots’ , our findings suggest that AMPARs rapidly enter stable ‘nanodomains’ in PSDs with lifetime >15 min , and do not accumulate in extrasynaptic membranes .  A major goal of cellular and molecular neuroscience is to characterize how synapses change during synaptic plasticity , the leading cellular correlate of learning and memory ( Volk et al . , 2015; Huganir and Nicoll , 2013; Kneussel and Hausrat , 2016 ) . The position and dynamics of the two major ionotropic glutamate receptors ( iGluRs ) , α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors ( AMPARs ) and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ( NMDARs ) , are critical for synaptic strength . AMPARs traffic intracellularly from sites of synthesis and assembly to exocytosis sites near synapses ( Anggono and Huganir , 2012; Henley et al . , 2011; Greger and Esteban , 2007 ) . Despite much elegant work , it is still unclear what mechanisms limit AMPAR entry into and exit out of PSDs ( Malinow and Malenka , 2002 ) ( Park et al . , 2004 ) ( Wang et al . , 2008 ) . The different steps involved in AMPAR trafficking at synapses under constitutive conditions ( no plasticity ) are depicted schematically in Figure 1a . As shown , AMPAR trafficking consists of its exo- and endocytosis at sites on the plasma membrane ( steps 1 and 1’ , respectively ) , diffusion to and from these sites and PSDs ( steps 2 and 2’ ) and entry into and exit from PSDs ( steps 3 and 3’ ) . The positioning of the AMPAR endo- and exocytosis sites with respect to PSDs is uncertain with some evidence for endo- and exocytosis sites within spines relatively close to PSDs ( Kennedy et al . , 2010; Lu et al . , 2007 ) , other evidence that the sites are on dendrite shafts outside of spines ( Yudowski et al . , 2007; Tao-Cheng et al . , 2011 ) , and also that both locations may exist regulated by synaptic plasticity ( Tao-Cheng et al . , 2011 ) . Another complication is that the recycling pathway under constitutive conditions may be different from the pathway with synaptic plasticity ( Zheng et al . , 2015; Henley et al . , 2011 ) . This suggests that different endo- and exocytosis sites may exist under constitutive conditions versus synaptic plasticity . In the last decade , advanced fluorescence microscopic techniques have pioneered work on iGluR dynamics ( Heine et al . , 2008; Groc et al . , 2007; Nair et al . , 2013; MacGillavry et al . , 2013; Kneussel and Hausrat , 2016 ) . Commercial or ‘big’ quantum dots ( bQDs ) with a diameter >20 nm were observed ( at least occasionally ) within synaptic clefts of inhibitory synapses by electron microscopy ( Dahan et al . , 2003 ) . bQDs are extremely bright , photostable and their position can be localized to within ~10 nm in the millisecond time-scale ( Pinaud et al . , 2010 ) . Studies of AMPARs tagged with bQDs led to the conclusion that 50–80% of AMPARs are extrasynaptic and highly mobile ( Groc et al . , 2007; Opazo et al . , 2010 ) . This significant highly mobile pool of extrasynaptic AMPARs has been proposed to exist because of the slow rate that extrasynaptic AMPARs enter PSDs . This slow rate of motion and accumulation of extra-synaptic AMPARs is thought to occur because of the limited availability of ‘slots’ in PSDs ( See Figure 1a , route 3 ) ( Shi et al . , 2001; Opazo et al . , 2012 ) . Slots are defined as placeholders for AMPARs in PSDs ( Malinow et al . , 2000 ) . Once in PSD slots , AMPARs are generally assumed to be immobilized , although Nair et al . observed that AMPARs underwent constrained diffusion in what they defined as ‘nanodomains’ , that is sub-synaptic regions where AMPARs are confined to ( Nair et al . , 2013 ) . New slots may become available when AMPARs exit from PSDs ( route 3’ ) or if more slots are created or removed by different forms of synaptic plasticity ( Malinow et al . , 2000; Shi et al . , 2001; Malinow , 2003; Giannone et al . , 2010 ) ( Groc et al . , 2007; Heine et al . , 2008 ) ( Nair et al . , 2013 ) ( Makino and Malinow , 2009 ) ( Opazo et al . , 2012 ) ( Henley and Wilkinson , 2016 ) . The presence of such a large pool of mobile AMPARs on the extrasynaptic surface of dendritic membranes is thought to be an important contributor to the mechanisms that underlie synaptic plasticity such as LTP and could help synapses recover from pair-pulse depression during periods of fast synaptic transmission ( Heine et al . , 2008; Tao-Cheng et al . , 2011 ) . To avoid the potential problem of using large probes , other workers have used single particle tracking ( spt ) of small ( <5 nm ) fluorescent probes permanently ( generally via a linkage protein ) or temporarily bound to an AMPAR . One such technique is called sptPALM ( spt- photoactivated localization microscopy ) where an iGluR is fused with a photoactivatable fluorescent protein ( pa-FP ) ( Manley et al . , 2008 ) . Another technique is called universal points accumulation for imaging in nanoscale topography ( uPAINT ) which measures an organic fluorescent probe that is temporarily bound to the receptor ( Sharonov and Hochstrasser , 2006; Giannone et al . , 2010 ) . However , there are contradictory results using these methods . Using uPAINT , AMPARs were found to be highly mobile ( Giannone et al . , 2010 ) , or stationary ( Nair et al . , 2013 ) . Using sptPALM and FRAP , another fluorescence technique , workers found that AMPARs were highly mobile . However , fluorescent proteins for sptPALM and FRAP are sensitive to both internal and external AMPAR receptors , which may obfuscate the issue ( Nair et al . , 2013; Heine et al . , 2008 ) ( Makino and Malinow , 2009; Ashby et al . , 2006 ) . Determining whether AMPARs or other neurotransmitter receptors are synaptic ( outside PSDs ) or extrasynaptic ( inside PSDs ) has been difficult because of four factors: ( 1 ) Synapses are nanometer in scale below the diffraction limit of visible microscopy; ( 2 ) Most microscopy has been limited to two-dimensions , where in reality , the dimensions are three-dimensional; ( 3 ) Recombinantly tagged imaging probes cannot readily distinguish intracellular vs . cell-surface receptors; ( 4 ) Probe photostability limits the localization precision and the length of image acquisition , particularly for single-molecule studies . Here we use 3-dimensional super-resolution microscopy on cell-surface AMPARs labeled with different-sized fluorescent probes—bQDs ( >20 nm ) , small quantum dots ( sQD ≈10 nm ) ( Cai et al . , 2014 ) or organic fluorophore ( ≈ 4 nm ) in cultured neurons . These probes are highly fluorescent; bQDs are nearly infinitely photostable; sQDs are photostable for several minutes; and selected organic fluorophores can be photostable for ~1 min . We analyzed the diffusion constants , trajectories , distances from the center of PSDs , changes that occurred over time after transfection , and the role of the extracellular matrix in regulating diffusion . To better resolve PSD dimensions , we used 3-D super-resolution imaging of a PSD protein , Homer1c . We find that > 90% of AMPARs labeled with organic fluorescent dyes or sQDs are found in PSDs . Less than 10% of these labeled AMPARs are highly mobile and extrasynaptic . However , when AMPARs are labeled with bQDs , virtually all AMPARs ( 90–95% ) are highly mobile and extrasynaptic , presumably because bQDs are sterically hindered from entry into synaptic clefts . We conclude that mobile AMPARs enter PSDs and do not accumulate in extrasynaptic membranes as previously observed in studies using the AMPARs labeled with bQDs . Our data further suggest that AMPAR entry is not regulated by a limited number of ‘slots’ where AMPARs are bound after entry into PSDs . Instead AMPARs are found to diffuse within surprisingly stable ‘nanodomains’ confining AMPARs to sites within PSDs that may regulate access to presynaptic glutamate release . 
The mechanism for the earliest response of central neurons to hypoxia—an increase in voltage-gated sodium current ( INa ) —has been unknown . Here , we show that hypoxia activates the Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier ( SUMO ) pathway in rat cerebellar granule neurons ( CGN ) and that SUMOylation of NaV1 . 2 channels increases INa . The time-course for SUMOylation of single NaV1 . 2 channels at the cell surface and changes in INa coincide , and both are prevented by mutation of NaV1 . 2-Lys38 or application of a deSUMOylating enzyme . Within 40 s , hypoxia-induced linkage of SUMO1 to the channels is complete , shifting the voltage-dependence of channel activation so that depolarizing steps evoke larger sodium currents . Given the recognized role of INa in hypoxic brain damage , the SUMO pathway and NaV1 . 2 are identified as potential targets for neuroprotective interventions .  Acute hypoxia contributes to brain damage arising from such common conditions as stroke , heart attack , and head trauma . In humans , decreased cerebral blood flow ( ischemia ) resulting in acute neuronal hypoxia correlates with pathological changes in electroencephalographic recordings and decreased electrical signaling in less than 150 s ( Sundt et al . , 1981 ) . At the cellular level , the first effect of hypoxia is to increase INa ( Boening et al . , 1989; Stys et al . , 1992 ) ; this precedes a series of events that include depolarization of the plasma membrane , excitotoxic elevation of intracellular calcium , mitochondrial dysfunction , ATP depletion , increased production of reactive oxygen species and , ultimately , cell death ( Leao , 1944; Hansen , 1985; Choi , 1990 ) . While these downstream effects have been well studied , the early hypoxia-induced change in Na+ flux has received less attention despite strong evidence to support its critical role in the hypoxic insult: inhibition of INa by tetrodotoxin ( TTX ) attenuates hypoxia-induced depolarization and reduces neuronal death in the hippocampus , hypothalamus , and neocortex ( Boening et al . , 1989; Stys et al . , 1992; Weber and Taylor , 1994; Xie et al . , 1994; Taylor et al . , 1995; Fung et al . , 1999; Horn and Waldrop , 2000; Raley-Susman et al . , 2001; Banasiak et al . , 2004 ) . Furthermore , the neuroprotective effects of TTX have been judged to occur both independent of , and by reduction of the excitotoxic effects that follow INa-induced membrane depolarization . In excitable cells , membrane depolarization opens voltage-gated sodium ( NaV ) channels , initiating an explosive influx of sodium ions ( Na+ ) that generate the rising phase of the action potential ( Catterall , 2000 ) . These channels are mixed complexes comprised of one α-subunit ( ~2000 residues ) , which contains four voltage sensor domains and one ion conduction pore , and smaller β-subunits that modify function . Of the ten genes for α-subunits in mammals , four are predominant in the central nervous system including SCN2a , which encodes NaV1 . 2 , an α-subunit that is widely distributed in the brain . SCN2a mutations are associated with epilepsy and febrile seizures ( Shi et al . , 2012 ) . SUMOylation is the enzyme-mediated , post-translational linkage of one of three SUMO isoforms to the ε-amino group of specific Lys residues on a target protein ( Henley et al . , 2014 ) . Present in all eukaryotic cells , the SUMO pathway was recognized to regulate the trafficking and activity of nuclear transcription factors when we discovered it to operate as well at the plasma membrane to regulate neuronal excitability via direct SUMOylation of K+ channel α-subunits ( Rajan et al . , 2005; Plant et al . , 2010 , 2011 , 2012 ) . Here , seeking to determine if the SUMO pathway also regulated sodium channels , we documented SUMOylation of NaV1 . 2 channels in CGN and then recognized it to be the basis for acute , hypoxic augmentation of INa . To establish the mechanism , we studied rat CGN using whole-cell voltage-clamp , and observed hypoxia to increase INa to a new steady-state level in <40 s due to an excitatory , leftward shift in the voltage required to activate the current . The shift was recapitulated by application of SUMO1 under normoxic conditions and suppressed by the deSUMOylating enzyme SENP1 . Consistent with tonic control of INa by the SUMO pathway , SUMO1 and SENP1 increased and decreased the current , respectively , under normoxic conditions . The response of INa to hypoxia was ablated by µ–Conotoxin-TIIIA ( CnTX ) , a potent blocker of NaV1 . 2 channels . Supporting the implied mechanism—rapid SUMOylation of NaV1 . 2 channels at the CGN plasma membrane in response to hypoxia—hypoxia was directly shown to increase the interaction of native SUMO1 and NaV1 . 2 at the neuronal surface using antibody-mediated fluorescent resonance energy transfer ( amFRET ) microscopy and ground state depletion , stochastic optical reconstruction super-resolution microscopy ( STORM ) . SUMOylation of NaV1 . 2 on Lys38 was shown to be necessary and sufficient to explain the changes in INa induced by hypoxia by reconstitution of the hypoxic response in Chinese Hamster Ovary ( CHO ) cells using heterologously expressed subunits . Further , study of live CHO cells in real-time using total internal reflection fluorescence ( TIRF ) microscopy revealed that acute hypoxia leads to monoSUMOylation of single NaV1 . 2 channels already at the plasma membrane without a change in the number of channels on the surface . 
Thermal biology predicts that vector-borne disease transmission peaks at intermediate temperatures and declines at high and low temperatures . However , thermal optima and limits remain unknown for most vector-borne pathogens . We built a mechanistic model for the thermal response of Ross River virus , an important mosquito-borne pathogen in Australia , Pacific Islands , and potentially at risk of emerging worldwide . Transmission peaks at moderate temperatures ( 26 . 4°C ) and declines to zero at thermal limits ( 17 . 0 and 31 . 5°C ) . The model accurately predicts that transmission is year-round endemic in the tropics but seasonal in temperate areas , resulting in the nationwide seasonal peak in human cases . Climate warming will likely increase transmission in temperate areas ( where most Australians live ) but decrease transmission in tropical areas where mean temperatures are already near the thermal optimum . These results illustrate the importance of nonlinear models for inferring the role of temperature in disease dynamics and predicting responses to climate change .  The natural history of RRV is complex: transmission occurs across a range of climates ( tropical , subtropical , and temperate ) and habitats ( urban and rural , coastal and inland ) and via many vertebrate reservoir and vector species ( Claflin and Webb , 2015 ) . Marsupials are generally considered the critical reservoirs for maintaining the virus between human outbreaks , but recent work has argued that placental mammals and birds may be equally important in many locations ( Stephenson et al . , 2018 ) . The virus has been isolated from over 40 mosquito species in nature , and 10 species transmit it in laboratory studies ( Harley et al . , 2001; Russell , 2002 ) . However , four species are responsible for most transmission to humans ( Culex annulirostris , Aedes [Ochlerotatus] vigilax , Ae . [O . ] notoscriptus , and Ae . [O . ] camptorhynchus ) , with two additional species implicated in outbreaks ( Ae . [Stegomyia] polynesiensis and Ae . [O . ] normanensis ) . The vectors differ in climate and habitat niches , leading to geographic variation in associations with outbreaks . We assembled and mapped records of RRV outbreaks in humans attributed to different vector species ( Figure 1 , Figure 1—source data 1 ) ( Rosen et al . , 1981; Campbell et al . , 1989; Russell et al . , 1991; Yang et al . , 2009; Lindsay et al . , 1993b; Lindsay et al . , 1993a; Lindsay et al . , 1996; Lindsay et al . , 2007; McManus et al . , 1992; Merianos et al . , 1992; Whelan et al . , 1992; Whelan et al . , 1995 , Whelan et al . , 1997; McDonnell et al . , 1994; Russell , 1994; Russell , 2002; Dhileepan , 1996; Ritchie et al . , 1997; Brokenshire et al . , 2000; Ryan et al . , 2000; Harley et al . , 2000; Harley et al . , 2001; Kelly-Hope et al . , 2004a; Frances et al . , 2004; Biggs and Mottram , 2008; Jacups et al . , 2008b; Schmaedick et al . , 2008; Lau et al . , 2017 ) . Ae . vigilax and Ae . notoscriptus were more commonly implicated in transmission in tropical and subtropical zones , Ae . camptorhynchus in temperate zones , and Cx . annulirostris throughout all climatic zones . Freshwater-breeding Cx . annulirostris has been implicated in transmission across both inland and coastal areas , while saltmarsh mosquitoes Ae . vigilax and Ae . camptorhynchus have been implicated only in coastal areas ( Russell , 2002 ) and inland areas affected by salinization from agriculture ( Biggs and Mottram , 2008; Carver et al . , 2009 ) . Peri-domestic , container-breeding Ae . notoscriptus has been implicated in urban epidemics ( Russell , 2002 ) . The vectors also differ in their seasonality: Ae . camptorhynchus populations peak earlier and in cooler temperatures than Ae . vigilax , leading to seasonal succession where they overlap ( Yang et al . , 2009; Russell , 1998 ) . This latitudinal and temporal variation suggests that vector species may have different thermal optima and/or niche breadths . If so , temperature may impact disease transmission differently for each species . Transmission depends on a suite of vector , pathogen , and human traits , including mosquito density ( M ) . Our main model ( ‘full R0 Model , ’ Equation 1 ) assumes temperature drives mosquito density and includes the relevant life history trait thermal responses ( Parham and Michael , 2009; Mordecai et al . , 2013; Mordecai et al . , 2017 ) . We initially compare this model to an alternative ( ‘constant M model , ’ Equation 2 ) where mosquito density does not depend on temperature . We make this comparison because many transmission models do not include the thermal responses for mosquito density , assuming it depends primarily on habitat availability . Here , we focus on the relative influence of temperature on transmission potential , recognizing that absolute R0 also depends on other factors . Accordingly , we scaled model output between zero and one ( ‘relative R0’ ) . Relative R0 describes thermal suitability for transmission . Combined with factors like breeding habitat availability , vector control , humidity , human and reservoir host density , host immune status , and mosquito exposure , relative R0 can be used to predict disease incidence . In this approach , only the relative thermal response of each trait influences R0 , which is desirable since traits can differ substantially due to other factors and in laboratory versus field settings ( particularly mosquito survival: Clements and Paterson , 1981 ) . Relative R0 does not provide a threshold for sustained disease transmission ( i . e . where absolute R0 = 1 ) , since this threshold is not controlled solely by temperature . Instead , relative R0 preserves the temperature-dependence of R0 to provide three key temperature values: upper and lower thermal limits where transmission is possible ( R0 >0; a conservative threshold where transmission is not excluded by high or low temperatures ) and the temperature that maximizes R0 . 
Motor cortical beta oscillations have been reported for decades , yet their behavioral correlates remain unresolved . Some studies link beta oscillations to changes in underlying neural activity , but the specific behavioral manifestations of these reported changes remain elusive . To investigate how changes in population neural activity , beta oscillations , and behavior are linked , we recorded multi-scale neural activity from motor cortex while three macaques performed a novel neurofeedback task . Subjects volitionally brought their beta oscillatory power to an instructed state and subsequently executed an arm reach . Reaches preceded by a reduction in beta power exhibited significantly faster movement onset times than reaches preceded by an increase in beta power . Further , population neural activity was found to shift farther from a movement onset state during beta oscillations that were neurofeedback-induced or naturally occurring during reaching tasks . This finding establishes a population neural basis for slowed movement onset following periods of beta oscillatory activity .  Beta band oscillations ( typically defined as 13–30 Hz ) have been noted to reliably emerge during specific motor actions such as isometric contraction and precision reaching , after movement-related cues , and prior to instructed reaches ( Baker et al . , 2003 , Baker et al . , 1997; Canolty et al . , 2012; Engel and Fries , 2010; Leventhal et al . , 2012; Saleh et al . , 2010; Sanes and Donoghue , 1993 ) . These findings have prompted hypotheses about what underlying state beta oscillations may be signaling . The most prominent of these hypotheses suggest beta oscillations indicate ongoing sensorimotor integration ( Baker , 2007 ) , coordination ( Rubino et al . , 2006 ) , idling ( Engel and Fries , 2010; Gilbertson et al . , 2005; Pfurtscheller et al . , 1996 ) , motor preparation ( Donoghue et al . , 1998 ) , or attention ( Fetz , 2013; Saleh et al . , 2010 ) . These distinct hypotheses are generated by correlating beta power with phases of different motor tasks . Explaining when beta oscillations emerge and how they reflect underlying neural population computations is challenging given their presence during a multitude of behaviors . Electrical stimulation is one approach used to experimentally induce oscillations . Slowly oscillating cortical macrostimulation ( up to 1 . 7 Hz ) has been shown to entrain single unit neural activity in anesthetized rodents , although this entrainment was overpowered by endogenous rhythms in an awake situation ( Ozen et al . , 2010; Venkatraman and Carmena , 2009 ) . Non-invasive stimulation via transcranial alternating current stimulation ( tACS ) and repeated transcranial magnetic stimulation ( rTMS ) has been used to induce changes in cortical oscillations ( Fröhlich , 2014 ) , but the frequency of the induced oscillations was not solely dependent on the stimulation frequency ( Marshall et al . , 2006; Wach et al . , 2013 ) . Furthermore , the reported changes in motor behavior from stimulation at beta frequencies are inconsistent ( Davis et al . , 2012; Feurra et al . , 2011; Pogosyan et al . , 2009 ) . This study uses neurofeedback to manipulate beta oscillations in subjects' motor cortices with the aim of studying effects on arm reaching . While neurofeedback was pioneered by rewarding changes in firing rates of single motor cortical cells ( Fetz , 1969 ) , learning to control cortical local field potential ( LFP ) features has been proposed ( Fetz , 2013; Moxon and Foffani , 2015 ) and subsequently demonstrated ( Engelhard et al . , 2013; So et al . , 2014 ) . In this study , three macaque monkeys with chronic microwire electrode arrays implanted in their motor cortices were trained in a sequential neurofeedback and arm-reaching task . Sequential neurofeedback-behavior task designs have been used previously with a variety of neural recording modalities , neural signal features , and behaviors ( Gevensleben et al . , 2009; McFarland et al . , 2015; Schafer and Moore , 2011; Subramanian et al . , 2011 ) . In this study , a neurofeedback-reaching ( NR ) task was used in concert with simultaneous , multi-scale , high-count neural recordings to first study how the presence of beta oscillations influences arm-reaching behavior , and second , how underlying neuronal population patterns shift when beta oscillations are generated . It has been suggested that the presence of beta oscillations either locally or distally could influence neuronal computation ( Fries , 2015; Reimer and Hatsopoulos , 2010 ) , as slowly oscillating ephaptic fields have been shown to entrain spiking behavior in vitro ( Fröhlich and McCormick , 2010 ) . However , little evidence exists showing that beta oscillations in the local field potential influence spiking activity through ephaptic mechanisms . Thus , in this study we interpret beta oscillations as a statistic of synchronization of the underlying neural signals , not as a signal that can independently and causally influence neural spiking via ephaptic effects . We aim to investigate how the underlying neural signals change their encoding during epochs when beta oscillations are observed and do not make claims about the causality of beta oscillations on spiking activity . There are many proposed behavioral correlates of beta oscillations , but to link oscillations to a behavior rigorously it is necessary to understand how oscillations reflect the underlying neural activity that ultimately drives the behavior . Prior studies investigating neural activity changes during beta oscillations used acute , single-electrode recording preparations and showed that single cells are synchronized to ongoing oscillations but that the strength of this synchronization is unrelated to the involvement of the neuron during the motor task ( Murthy and Fetz , 1996a ) . These studies also show individual cells do not change their mean spike firing rate but do exhibit a reduction in spiking variability during oscillations compared to the variability exhibited before the oscillation ( Murthy and Fetz , 1996b ) . How might these changes in individual units relate to attention , motor preparation , or idling ? Modeling groups have aimed to bridge this gap by showing how beta oscillations could be a signal generated by cells conveying top-down information ( Fries , 2015; Lee et al . , 2013 ) , could reflect a pattern of firing activating specific cell assemblies ( Canolty et al . , 2012; Kopell et al . , 2011 ) , or could reflect specific spatiotemporal recruitment of cells ( Best et al . , 2017; Rubino et al . , 2006 ) . However , experimental evidence of spiking patterns that accomplish the proposed functions while generating beta oscillationsis lacking . In contrast , if one were to omit the role that beta oscillations may play in motor behavior , there is substantial work linking spiking patterns to specific aspects of motor behavior such as movement onset ( Kaufman et al . , 2014 ) , reaction time ( Afshar et al . , 2011; Churchland and Shenoy , 2007 ) , movement angle ( Georgopoulos et al . , 1982; Lillicrap and Scott , 2013 ) , and movement speed ( Churchland et al . , 2006; Moran and Schwartz , 1999 ) , to list just a few . Here , we report both changes in motor behavior following performance of neurofeedback during a sequential neurofeedback-reaching task , and a neural population shift that mirrors the observed change in motor behavior . Notably , this shift in neural population was also seen in naturally occurring beta oscillations during reaching tasks , suggesting that beta oscillations reflect a common signature of spiking patterns even in different task contexts . This study ties together existing works on behavioral correlates of beta oscillations with hypotheses of how the motor cortex encodes movement onset through the lens of population-level neural activity . 
TRAF2 is a component of TNF superfamily signalling complexes and plays an essential role in the regulation and homeostasis of immune cells . TRAF2 deficient mice die around birth , therefore its role in adult tissues is not well-explored . Furthermore , the role of the TRAF2 RING is controversial . It has been claimed that the atypical TRAF2 RING cannot function as a ubiquitin E3 ligase but counterclaimed that TRAF2 RING requires a co-factor , sphingosine-1-phosphate , that is generated by the enzyme sphingosine kinase 1 , to function as an E3 ligase . Keratinocyte-specific deletion of Traf2 , but not Sphk1 deficiency , disrupted TNF mediated NF-κB and MAP kinase signalling and caused epidermal hyperplasia and psoriatic skin inflammation . This inflammation was driven by TNF , cell death , non-canonical NF-κB and the adaptive immune system , and might therefore represent a clinically relevant model of psoriasis . TRAF2 therefore has essential tissue specific functions that do not overlap with those of Sphk1 .  TNF Receptor Associated Factor 2 ( TRAF2 ) is an adaptor protein that transduces signals following ligation of certain cytokine receptors including those binding TNF . It was first identified together with TRAF1 as a component of TNF receptor-2 and then TNF receptor-1 ( TNFR1 ) signalling complexes ( Rothe et al . , 1994; Shu et al . , 1996 ) . TRAF2 , like most other TRAFs , contains a RING domain , several zinc fingers , a TRAF-N , and a conserved TRAF-C domain which is responsible for oligomerisation and receptor binding through its MATH region ( Takeuchi et al . , 1996; Uren and Vaux , 1996 ) . RING domains are nearly always associated with ubiquitin E3 ligase activity ( Shi and Kehrl , 2003 ) and TRAF2 can promote ubiquitylation of RIPK1 in TNFR1 signalling complexes ( TNFR1-SC ) ( Wertz et al . , 2004 ) . However TRAF2 recruits E3 ligases such as cIAPs to TNFR1-SC and these have also been shown to be able to ubiquitylate RIPK1 and regulate TNF signalling ( Dynek et al . , 2010; Mahoney et al . , 2008; Varfolomeev et al . , 2008; Vince et al . , 2009 ) . This makes it difficult to unambiguously determine the role of the E3 ligase activity of TRAF2 . Activation of JNK and NF-κB by TNF is reduced in cells from Traf2-/- mice while only JNK signalling was affected in lymphocytes from transgenic mice that express a dominant negative ( DN ) form of TRAF2 that lacks the RING domain ( Lee et al . , 1997; Yeh et al . , 1997 ) . Traf2-/-Traf5-/- mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ) have a pronounced defect in activation of NF-κB by TNF , suggesting that absence of TRAF2 can be compensated by TRAF5 ( Tada et al . , 2001 ) . Although activation of NF-κB was restored in Traf2-/-Traf5-/- cells by re-expression of wild type TRAF2 , it was not restored when the cells were reconstituted with TRAF2 point mutants that could not bind cIAPs ( Vince et al . , 2009; Zhang et al . , 2010 ) . These data , together with a wealth of different lines of evidence showing that cIAPs are critical E3 ligases required for TNF-induced canonical NF-κB ( Blackwell et al . , 2013; Haas et al . , 2009; Silke , 2011 ) , support the idea that the main function of TRAF2 in TNF-induced NF-κB is to recruit cIAPs to the TNFR1-SC . However , it remains possible that the RING of TRAF2 plays another function , such as in activating JNK and protecting cells from TNF-induced cell death ( Vince et al . , 2009; Zhang et al . , 2010 ) . Furthermore it has been shown that TRAF2 can K48-ubiquitylate caspase-8 to set the threshold for TRAIL or Fas induced cell death ( Gonzalvez et al . , 2012 ) . Moreover , TRAF2 inhibits non-canonical NF-κB signalling ( Grech et al . , 2004; Zarnegar et al . , 2008 ) and this function requires the RING domain of TRAF2 to induce proteosomal degradation of NIK ( Vince et al . , 2009 ) . However , structural and in vitro analyses indicate that , unlike TRAF6 , the RING domain of TRAF2 is unable to bind E2 conjugating enzymes ( Yin et al . , 2009 ) , and is therefore unlikely to have intrinsic E3 ligase activity . Sphingosine-1-phosphate ( S1P ) is a pleiotropic sphingolipid mediator that regulates proliferation , differentiation , cell trafficking and vascular development ( Pitson , 2011 ) . S1P is generated by sphingosine kinase 1 and 2 ( SPHK1 and SPHK2 ) ( Kohama et al . , 1998; Liu et al . , 2000 ) . Extracellular S1P mainly acts by binding to its five G protein-coupled receptors S1P1-5 ( Hla and Dannenberg , 2012 ) . However , some intracellular roles have been suggested for S1P , including the blocking of the histone deacetylases , HDAC1/2 ( Hait et al . , 2009 ) and the induction of apoptosis through interaction with BAK and BAX ( Chipuk et al . , 2012 ) . Recently , it was suggested that the RING domain of TRAF2 requires S1P as a co-factor for its E3 ligase activity ( Alvarez et al . , 2010 ) . Alvarez and colleagues proposed that SPHK1 but not SPHK2 is activated by TNF and phosphorylates sphingosine to S1P which in turn binds to the RING domain of TRAF2 and serves as an essential co-factor that was missing in the experiments of Yin et al . Alvarez and colleagues , observed that in the absence of SPHK1 , TNF-induced NF-κB activation was completely abolished . Although we know a lot about TRAF2 , there are still important gaps particularly with regard to cell type specificity and in vivo function of TRAF2 . Moreover , despite the claims that SPHK1 and its product , S1P , are required for TRAF2 to function as a ubiquitin ligase , the responses of Traf2-/- and Sphk1-/- cells to TNF were not compared . Therefore , we undertook an analysis of TRAF2 and SPHK1 function in TNF signalling in a number of different tissues . Surprisingly , we found that neither TRAF2 nor SPHK1 are required for TNF mediated canonical NF-κB and MAPK signalling in macrophages . However , MEFs , murine dermal fibroblasts ( MDFs ) and keratinocytes required TRAF2 but not SPHK1 for full strength TNF signalling . In these cell types , absence of TRAF2 caused a delay in TNF-induced activation of NF-κB and MAPK , and sensitivity to killing by TNF was increased . Absence of TRAF2 in keratinocytes in vivo resulted in psoriasis-like epidermal hyperplasia and skin inflammation . Unlike TNF-dependent genetic inflammatory skin conditions , such as IKK2 epidermal knock-out ( Pasparakis et al . , 2002 ) and the cpdm mutant ( Gerlach et al . , 2011 ) , the onset of inflammation was only delayed , and not prevented by deletion of TNF . This early TNF-dependent inflammation is caused by excessive apoptotic but not necroptotic cell death and could be prevented by deletion of Casp8 . We observed constitutive activation of NIK and non-canonical NF-κB in Traf2-/- keratinocytes which caused production of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines . We were able to reverse this inflammatory phenotype by simultaneously deleting both Tnf and Nfkb2 genes . Our results highlight the important role TRAF2 plays to protect keratinocytes from cell death and to down-regulate inflammatory responses and support the idea that intrinsic defects in keratinocytes can initiate psoriasis-like skin inflammation . 
The exocytosis of synaptic vesicles ( SVs ) elicited by potent stimulation is rapidly compensated by bulk endocytosis of SV membranes leading to large endocytic vacuoles ( ‘bulk’ endosomes ) . Subsequently , these vacuoles disappear in parallel with the reappearance of new SVs . We have used synapses of dynamin 1 and 3 double knock-out neurons , where clathrin-mediated endocytosis ( CME ) is dramatically impaired , to gain insight into the poorly understood mechanisms underlying this process . Massive formation of bulk endosomes was not defective , but rather enhanced , in the absence of dynamin 1 and 3 . The subsequent conversion of bulk endosomes into SVs was not accompanied by the accumulation of clathrin coated buds on their surface and this process proceeded even after further clathrin knock-down , suggesting its independence of clathrin . These findings support the existence of a pathway for SV reformation that bypasses the requirement for clathrin and dynamin 1/3 and that operates during intense synaptic activity .  Synaptic vesicles ( SVs ) are the specialized organelles that store and secrete non-peptide neurotransmitters at synapses . Following exocytosis , their membranes are rapidly recaptured by endocytosis and recycled for the generation of new fusion-competent SVs ( Ceccarelli et al . , 1973; Heuser and Reese , 1973; Betz and Bewick , 1992 ) . Strong evidence indicates that clathrin-mediated endocytosis ( CME ) plays a key role in this endocytic traffic ( Heuser and Reese , 1973; Maycox et al . , 1992; Granseth et al . , 2006; Heerssen et al . , 2008; Kasprowicz et al . , 2008; Saheki and De Camilli , 2012 ) . Endocytic vesicles generated by CME have a small homogenous size , in the same range of SVs ( Shupliakov et al . , 1997; Raimondi et al . , 2011 ) . While it had been originally hypothesized that such vesicles transit through an endosomal station ( Heuser and Reese , 1973 ) , subsequent studies have suggested that they may mature directly into SVs , a possibility consistent with their size ( Takei et al . , 1996 ) . However , CME does not account for all SV recycling and the mechanisms of alternative pathways have been the object of intense debate . One proposed alternative recycling mechanism is so-called ‘kiss-and-run’ , a process whereby SVs fuse only very transiently with the plasma membrane without collapsing into it , so that the SVs reform directly by the immediate closure of the fusion pore ( Fesce et al . , 1994; Alabi and Tsien , 2013 ) . Yet another mechanism is bulk endocytosis , a high capacity pathway of plasma membrane internalization involving patches of membrane larger than the membrane of individual SVs . This mechanism predominates under intense neuronal activity ( Miller and Heuser , 1984; Holt et al . , 2003; Wu and Wu , 2007; Hayashi et al . , 2008; Cousin , 2009; Wenzel et al . , 2012; Kittelmann et al . , 2013 ) . Endocytic intermediates generated by bulk endocytosis , henceforth defined as ‘bulk’ endosomes , eventually disappear as new SVs appear , suggesting a precursor-product relationship and possibly a direct formation of SVs from bulk endosomes ( Heuser and Reese , 1973 ) . Studies in Caenorhabditis elegans have opened new questions on SV recycling mechanisms . Mutations expected to result in loss or strong defect of the function of clathrin or of its endocytic adaptor AP-2 were shown not to abolish synaptic function ( Gu et al . , 2008 , 2013; Sato et al . , 2009 ) . Additionally , studies of worm synapses expressing channelrhodopsin and subjected to a very brief photostimulus revealed an ultrafast endocytic reaction mediated by uncoated invaginations larger than SVs ( Watanabe et al . , 2013a ) . More recently , similar results – an ultrafast endocytic reaction mediated by large uncoated invaginations in response to a single optogenetic stimulus – were observed at synapses of mouse hippocampal neurons in primary culture ( Watanabe et al . , 2013b ) . Both the molecular mechanisms underlying bulk endocytosis and those through which SVs are generated from bulk endosomes remain poorly understood . Like any other form of endocytosis , bulk endocytosis involves membrane remodeling and membrane fission . Thus , several studies of bulk endocytosis have addressed the potential involvement of dynamin , a GTPase known to mediate endocytic membrane fission in multiple contexts including , most prominently , endocytic fission at neuronal synapses ( Koenig and Ikeda , 1989; Ramaswami et al . , 1994; Ferguson and De Camilli , 2012 ) . However , conflicting results have been reported . A role for dynamin , and more specifically for dynamin 1 has been supported by some studies ( Clayton et al . , 2009 , 2010; Xue et al . , 2011; Nguyen et al . , 2012 ) . Interestingly , dynamin 1 is constitutively phosphorylated in resting nerve terminals and its Ca2+ triggered dephosphorylation upon synaptic stimulation results in its binding to the F-BAR domain containing protein syndapin/pacsin ( Anggono et al . , 2006; Clayton et al . , 2009; Koch et al . , 2011 ) , which has also been implicated in bulk endocytosis ( Andersson et al . , 2008 ) . However , studies of dynamin 1 knock-out ( KO ) neurons have indicated the occurrence of robust bulk endocytosis even in the absence of dynamin 1 ( Hayashi et al . , 2008 ) , in spite of a strong impairment of CME ( Ferguson et al . , 2007; Lou et al . , 2008 ) . It remains possible that other dynamins , dynamin 3 in particular , which is the other predominantly neuronal dynamin , may substitute for dynamin 1 in these neurons ( Ferguson et al . , 2007; Raimondi et al . , 2011 ) . Drugs ( dyngo-4a and dynasore ) that impair dynamin activity were reported to block bulk endocytosis ( Nguyen et al . , 2012 ) . However , the interpretation of such results is questioned by the more recent demonstration that these drugs can robustly affect plasma membrane dynamics by dynamin-independent mechanisms ( Park et al . , 2013 ) . Concerning the conversion of ‘bulk’ endosomes into SVs , precise mechanisms have yet to emerge . Based on a study of ‘broken’ synaptosomes it was proposed that such a conversion occurs via the same clathrin-mediated budding reaction that drives clathrin-mediated budding from the plasma membrane ( Takei et al . , 1996 ) . However , in that study bulk endosomes were exposed to conditions that can induce ectopic production of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 ( incubation with ATP and GTP or GTPγS ) ( Seaman et al . , 1993; Takei et al . , 1996; Krauss et al . , 2003 ) . Subsequent evidence that assembly of endocytic coats critically requires PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 in the membrane from which they originate ( Cremona et al . , 1999; Höning et al . , 2005; Zoncu et al . , 2007; Idevall-Hagren et al . , 2012 ) challenged these results as PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 , which is selectively concentrated at the plasma membrane , is generally rapidly depleted from endocytic membranes and is thus not expected to be concentrated on bulk endosomes ( Cremona et al . , 1999; Chang-Ileto et al . , 2011; Milosevic et al . , 2011 ) . The goal of this study was to gain new information into the recycling of SV membranes via bulk endocytosis . To this aim we examined the impact of manipulations that affect dynamin-dependent endocytosis on this process using electron microscopy ( EM ) in combination with endocytic tracers . We demonstrate that the rapid , bulk endocytic recapture of SV membranes induced by a strong stimulus , either KCl or high frequency stimulation , is not impaired at synapses lacking both of the two predominant neuronal dynamins , dynamin 1 and dynamin 3 , that is synapses where CME is severely perturbed ( Ferguson et al . , 2007; Raimondi et al . , 2011; Ferguson and De Camilli , 2012 ) . Conversion of bulk endosomes into new SVs does occur in these synapses , although less efficiently than in wild-type ( WT ) synapses . The partial impairment of this conversion is not further aggravated by the additional knock-down ( KD ) of clathrin , indicating the clathrin-independence of this process . These observations provide evidence for a pathway of SV reformation that predominates after strong stimulation and does not require clathrin mediated budding or dynamin 1 and 3 . 
Glucocorticoids are among the most commonly prescribed drugs , but there is no biomarker that can quantify their action . The aim of the study was to identify and validate circulating biomarkers of glucocorticoid action . In a randomized , crossover , single-blind , discovery study , 10 subjects with primary adrenal insufficiency ( and no other endocrinopathies ) were admitted at the in-patient clinic and studied during physiological glucocorticoid exposure and withdrawal . A randomization plan before the first intervention was used . Besides mild physical and/or mental fatigue and salt craving , no serious adverse events were observed . The transcriptome in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and adipose tissue , plasma miRNAomic , and serum metabolomics were compared between the interventions using integrated multi-omic analysis . We identified a transcriptomic profile derived from two tissues and a multi-omic cluster , both predictive of glucocorticoid exposure . A microRNA ( miR-122-5p ) that was correlated with genes and metabolites regulated by glucocorticoid exposure was identified ( p=0 . 009 ) and replicated in independent studies with varying glucocorticoid exposure ( 0 . 01 ≤ p≤0 . 05 ) . We have generated results that construct the basis for successful discovery of biomarker ( s ) to measure effects of glucocorticoids , allowing strategies to individualize and optimize glucocorticoid therapy , and shedding light on disease etiology related to unphysiological glucocorticoid exposure , such as in cardiovascular disease and obesity . The Swedish Research Council ( Grant 2015-02561 and 2019-01112 ) ; The Swedish federal government under the LUA/ALF agreement ( Grant ALFGBG-719531 ) ; The Swedish Endocrinology Association; The Gothenburg Medical Society; Wellcome Trust; The Medical Research Council , UK; The Chief Scientist Office , UK; The Eva Madura’s Foundation; The Research Foundation of Copenhagen University Hospital; and The Danish Rheumatism Association . NCT02152553 .  Glucocorticoids ( GCs ) have a key role in the metabolic , vascular , and immunological response to stress ( Cain and Cidlowski , 2017; Oster et al . , 2017 ) . GC secretion from the adrenal gland is under tight dynamic control by the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis and is regulated in a classic circadian pattern ( Cain and Cidlowski , 2017; Oster et al . , 2017 ) . Most actions of GCs are mediated by the ubiquitously expressed GC receptor ( Cain and Cidlowski , 2017; Oster et al . , 2017 ) . The tissue-specific effects of GCs are regulated by many local factors , including pre-receptor metabolism of GCs and the interaction of the GC receptor with tissue-specific transcription factors , or through non-genomic mechanisms ( Cain and Cidlowski , 2017; Oster et al . , 2017 ) . As a result of this complexity , circulating levels of cortisol relate poorly to tissue action of cortisol , and serum cortisol therefore has limited value as a biomarker for GC action ( Karssen et al . , 2001 ) . GCs are among the most commonly prescribed drugs , and GC treatment remains a cornerstone in the management of many rheumatic and inflammatory diseases despite the introduction of modern disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs and biological immunomodulatory treatment ( Smolen et al . , 2017 ) . GC replacement is essential for survival in patients with various forms of adrenal insufficiency ( Johannsson et al . , 2015 ) . However , metabolic and other side effects of GC treatment or replacement are common ( Björnsdottir et al . , 2011; Fardet et al . , 2012 ) , indicating that current methods to monitor their action and tailor their treatment are inadequate . Unphysiological GC exposure has been implicated in the etiology of several common diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus , hypertension , abdominal obesity , and cardiovascular disease ( Ragnarsson et al . , 2019 ) . Against this background , it is highly desirable to be able to measure and quantify GC action as this might be useful to refine current GC therapy . Biomarkers of GC action will also provide potential mechanistic understanding for the role of GCs in the etiology of many common diseases . Previous attempts to identify biomarkers using metabolomics have identified circulating metabolites associated with GC exposure ( Alwashih et al . , 2017a; Alwashih et al . , 2017b ) . Integrated multi-omic analysis provides increased robustness over analysis of individual ‘omic data sets ( Ideker et al . , 2011 ) . In particular , the identification of groups within one ‘omic ‘layer’ with shared co-regulation within another ‘omic layer implies a functional relationship that can be used both to assess the mechanistical relevance and to support the identification of biomarkers ( Karczewski and Snyder , 2018; Misra et al . , 2018 ) . The aim of this exploratory study was to define multi-omic patterns derived from independent tissues related to GC action and to use these patterns to search for clinically applicable circulating biomarkers of GC action . Subjects with primary adrenal insufficiency , Addison’s disease , lack GC production from the adrenal cortex and can therefore be considered a human GC ‘knock-down’ model ( Figure 1A ) . An experimental study design including subjects with Addison’s disease , standardizing for diurnal variation and food intake , allowed a within-individual comparison between physiological GC exposure and GC withdrawal ( Figure 1B ) . A multi-omic analysis strategy combining data from gene expression in circulation ( peripheral blood mononuclear cells [PBMCs] ) and an important metabolic tissue , adipose tissue , integrated with circulating microRNAs ( miRNAs ) and metabolites was used to identify putative biomarkers . The strongest putative biomarkers were then replicated in independent study groups with different GC exposure . 
Amino acids are essential activators of mTORC1 via a complex containing RAG GTPases , RAGULATOR and the vacuolar ATPase . Sensing of amino acids causes translocation of mTORC1 to lysosomes , an obligate step for activation . To examine the spatial and temporal dynamics of this translocation , we used live imaging of the mTORC1 component RAPTOR and a cell permeant fluorescent analogue of di-leucine methyl ester . Translocation to lysosomes is a transient event , occurring within 2 min of aa addition and peaking within 5 min . It is temporally coupled with fluorescent leucine appearance in lysosomes and is sustained in comparison to aa stimulation . Sestrin2 and the vacuolar ATPase are negative and positive regulators of mTORC1 activity in our experimental system . Of note , phosphorylation of canonical mTORC1 targets is delayed compared to lysosomal translocation suggesting a dynamic and transient passage of mTORC1 from the lysosomal surface before targetting its substrates elsewhere .  Mammalian cells maintain elaborate ways to respond to amino acid availability and a prominent sensor is the protein kinase mammalian ( or mechanistic ) target of rapamycin complex 1 ( mTORC1 ) ( Wullschleger et al . , 2006; Laplante and Sabatini , 2009 ) . Under plentiful aa conditions mTORC1 is active and it in turn activates several different downstream targets leading to protein synthesis and cell growth . When amino acids are scarce , mTORC1 becomes inactive and this leads to a slow-down in protein synthesis and growth and an induction of autophagy , a pathway that generates nutrients from self-digestion of cellular material ( Gulati and Thomas , 2007; Kim et al . , 2009; Chang et al . , 2009; Wang and Proud , 2009 ) . The mechanism by which amino acids are sensed by mTORC1 is beginning to be elucidated ( reviewed in Laplante and Sabatini , 2012; Jewell and Guan , 2013; Bar-Peled and Sabatini , 2014 ) . It appears that the active form of mTORC1 that responds positively to amino acid availability resides on late endosomal/lysosomal membranes , whereas absence of amino acids causes the translocation of mTORC1 from this compartment into the cytosol . Two protein complexes are responsible for the localization of mTORC1 to late endosomal/lysosomal membranes: a heterotetrameric complex of the RAG GTPases and a multimeric complex termed RAGULATOR , both of which are present on the late endosomal/lysosomal compartment constitutively ( KIm et al . , 2008; Sancak et al . , 2008 , 2010 ) . Activation state of the RAGs is partially determined by the RAGULATOR acting as a nucleotide exchange factor ( Bar-Peled et al . , 2012 ) and by an additional complex known as the GATOR acting as a GTPase activating protein ( Bar-Peled et al . , 2013 ) although it is also possible to activate mTORC1 downstream of amino acids in a way that is independent of the RAGs but still sensitive to the vacuolar ATPase ( Jewell et al , 2015 ) . In addition to the fundamental role of amino acids acting via the RAG/RAGULATOR axis , a small GTPase termed RHEB is also essential for mTORC1 activation ( Dibble and Manning , 2013 ) . This appears to be achieved via the amino acid-dependent translocation of the GTPase activating protein for RHEB termed TSC2 to the lysosomal surface ( Demetriades et al . , 2014 ) . A fundamental question of whether the primary amino acid sensor ( s ) are at the plasma membrane or inside the cell is not completely answered ( Dann and Thomas , 2006; Goberdham and Boyd , 2009; Hundal and Taylor , 2009 ) . The majority of recent work concludes that the sensors are internal , suggesting that amino acid transport to the cell interior is critical . A model proposed by Murphy and colleagues describes a coupled pathway whereby L-glutamine is first imported , then rapidly exported with the simultaneous import of L-leucine and other essential amino acids leading to mTORC1 activation ( Nicklin et al . , 2009 ) . Other recent work suggests that cytosolic leucyl-tRNA synthetase is a leucine sensor and activates mTORC1 ( Han et al . , 2012; Bonfils et al . , 2012 ) , consistent with the known primacy of leucine among amino acids in activation of mTORC1 . An “inside-out” sensing mechanism has also been proposed whereby amino acids in the lysosomal lumen are sensed by the vacuolar ATPase , and this signal is transmitted to the lysosomal exterior for activation of the RAGULATOR ( Zoncu et al . , 2011 ) . All of these data support the idea that amino acids ultimately activate mTORC1 in the cell interior , and probably more than one type of sensing ( and amino acid ) is involved . For example , although leucine is sensed by the Sestrin1/2 proteins ( Wolfson et al . , 2016 ) , recent work demonstrates that levels of arginine entering the lysosomes via transporter SLC38A9 are also important for mTORC1 activation ( Rebsamen et al . , 2015; Wang et al . , 2015 ) . At the same time , arginine is also sensed by the CASTOR1/2 proteins in the cytosol ( Chantranupong et al . , 2016 ) suggesting that even for the same amino acid multiple sensors in distinct cellular sites may be involved . On the other hand , it should also be mentioned that some older experiments showed that non permeable amino acid analogues can inhibit autophagy ( Miotto et al . , 1992 , 1994 ) , suggesting that sensing may also involve events at the plasma membrane . The exact spatial and temporal dynamics of the activation of mTORC1 upon amino acid stimulation are not understood owing to the difficulty of generating tagged versions of the kinase amenable to live imaging that still maintains physiological localization characteristics . In addition , making stable cell lines with other mTORC1 components such as RAPTOR also results in dynamics that differ significantly from the endogenous complex ( unpublished results ) . We have tried to overcome this problem in two different cell lines and using two different strategies . In HEK-293 cells , we have down-regulated endogenous RAPTOR while simultaneously expressing exogenous tagged constructs; in the near haploid HAP-1 cells we have tagged the endogenous RAPTOR gene with GFP . We describe here the dynamics of activation of the mTORC1 complex in these cells , with special emphasis in the HAP-1 cells . To examine whether mTORC1 responds directly to lysosomal amino acids , we have also generated a cell permeant fluorescent analogue of leucine in order to image RAPTOR translocation in response to this compound . 
Antigen uptake by dendritic cells and intracellular routing of antigens to specific compartments is regulated by C-type lectin receptors that recognize glycan structures . We show that the modification of Ovalbumin ( OVA ) with the glycan-structure LewisX ( LeX ) re-directs OVA to the C-type lectin receptor MGL1 . LeX-modification of OVA favored Th1 skewing of CD4+ T cells and enhanced cross-priming of CD8+ T cells . While cross-presentation of native OVA requires high antigen dose and TLR stimuli , LeX modification reduces the required amount 100-fold and obviates its dependence on TLR signaling . The OVA-LeX-induced enhancement of T cell cross-priming is MGL1-dependent as shown by reduced CD8+ effector T cell frequencies in MGL1-deficient mice . Moreover , MGL1-mediated cross-presentation of OVA-LeX neither required TAP-transporters nor Cathepsin-S and was still observed after prolonged intracellular storage of antigen in Rab11+LAMP1+ compartments . We conclude that controlled neo-glycosylation of antigens can crucially influence intracellular routing of antigens , the nature and strength of immune responses and should be considered for optimizing current vaccination strategies .  The induction of T cell immunity to viruses or tumors involves the presentation of viral or tumor antigens by antigen-presenting cells ( APC ) in the context of major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) molecules . Loading of exogenously-derived antigens onto MHC class I molecules , a process known as cross-presentation ( Carbone and Bevan , 1990 ) is required to activate antigen-specific CD8+ T cells . Furthermore , cognate CD4+ T cell help is important for licensing the APC , which is essential for effective CD8+ T cell priming and induction of long-lasting memory ( Bennett et al . , 1997; Schoenberger et al . , 1998 ) . The molecular mechanisms underlying cross-presentation have been studied intensively , however , little is still known on the nature of the antigens and stimuli that are required for APC to route exogenous antigens efficiently into the MHC class I presentation pathway . Most exogenous antigens that originate from tumor cells or viruses are glycosylated in their native form ( Apweiler et al . , 1999 ) . The relative composition of the glycosylation machinery , which includes all the necessary glycosylation-related enzymes and co-factors , determines the final configuration of the glycan structures that decorate N- or O-linked glycosylation sites present in glycoproteins . The glycosylation machinery can be affected by multiple physio-pathological cues , including proliferation , activation , and the transformation status of the cell ( Ohtsubo and Marth , 2006 ) , and depends on environmental factors . APC , such as dendritic cells ( DCs ) and macrophages are able to sense glycans exposed on either self- or pathogen-derived antigens via glycan-binding proteins . Amongst these glycan-binding proteins are C-type lectin receptors ( CLRs ) that recognize defined carbohydrate-structures through their carbohydrate recognition domain ( CRD ) . Depending on the amino acid sequence , the CRD bears specificity for mannose , fucose , galactose , sialylated- , or sulfated structures . CLRs function both as antigen uptake and/or signaling receptors that modify DC-induced cytokine responses thereby influencing T cell differentiation ( van and Rabinovich , 2008 ) . The specialized internalization motifs in the cytoplasmic domains of CLRs allow the rapid internalization of antigens upon interaction ( Engering et al . , 2002; Herre et al . , 2004 ) . This suggests that DCs use CLRs to 'sense' the natural glycan composition of tissues and invading pathogens and , in response to this recognition , are able to modulate immune responses ( Geijtenbeek and Gringhuis , 2009 ) . The conjugation of antigens to CLRs-specific antibodies , such as DEC205 , mannose receptor ( MR ) , Dendritic Cell-Specific Intercellular adhesion molecule-3-Grabbing Non-integrin ( DC-SIGN ) or CLEC9A , has proven to be an effective way to direct antigens to DCs , resulting in enhanced antigen uptake and presentation on MHC molecules ( Bonifaz et al . , 2004; Hawiger et al . , 2001; Caminschi et al . , 2008; Chatterjee et al . , 2012 ) . Also glycans specific for CLRs have shown their targeting specificity and potential to improve antigen uptake and presentation in MHC class I and II molecules when coupled to antigen formulations ( Singh et al . , 2009a; Garcia-Vallejo et al . , 2013; Unger et al . , 2012; Unger , 2014; Aarnoudse et al . , 2008; Yang et al . , 2008; Singh et al . , 2011 ) . To achieve immunity rather than tolerance inclusion of a strong adjuvant is necessary . Little is known on how naturally glycosylated antigens or alterations in the glycosylation of antigens may change and re-direct antigen internalization via CLRs , in addition to subsequent processing and presentation . MR was shown to mediate cross-presentation of the model-antigen ovalbumin ( OVA ) in a Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) -dependent manner and to recruit TAP-1 to endocytic organelles ( Burgdorf et al . , 2007; Burgdorf et al . , 2008 ) . Importantly , cross-presentation of OVA was only effective using high amounts of antigen ( Burgdorf et al . , 2007; Burgdorf et al . , 2008 ) . The interaction of OVA with MR , which has specificity for mannose ( Taylor et al . , 1992 ) , was speculated to be dependent on the presence of mannose glycans on OVA ( Burgdorf et al . , 2007 ) . In the current study , we investigated the effect of modifying the glycan composition of OVA on the efficacy of cross-presentation , priming and differentiation of T cells . We hypothesized that modification of the antigen with specific glycans would re-direct antigens to other CLRs resulting in altered intracellular routing and presentation of antigen and Th differentiation . We have chosen to conjugate the carbohydrate structure LewisX ( LeX ) to 2 free cysteine residues within the native OVA glycoprotein . LeX is a ligand of the murine C-type lectin macrophage galactose-type lectin ( MGL ) -1 ( Singh et al . , 2009b ) , which is expressed on murine plasmacytoid DC , CD8+ and CD8- splenic DC , DC in the small intestines , the sub-capsular and intra-follicular sinuses of T cell areas in lymph nodes , and on DC and macrophages in the dermis of skin ( Dupasquier et al . , 2006; Tsuiji et al . , 2002; Denda-Nagai et al . , 2010; Segura et al . , 2010 ) . Murine MGL1 is one of two homologues ( MGL1 and MGL2 ) of human MGL ( huMGL ) , which has been shown to interact with tumor cells through glycans exposed on MUC1 as well as with various pathogens ( van Vliet et al . , 2008 ) . However , MGL1 and MGL2 bind different glycan structures: while MGL1 binds LeX and Lea glycans , MGL2 binds N-acetylgalactosamine ( GalNAc ) and galactose glycan structures ( Singh et al . , 2009b ) . The YENF motif in the cytoplasmic tail of huMGL is essential for uptake of soluble antigens , which are subsequently presented to CD4+ T cells ( van Vliet et al . , 2007 ) . Murine MGL1 contains a similar motif ( YENL ) in its cytoplasmic tail , which likely plays a similar and important role in antigen uptake ( Yuita et al . , 2005 ) . Glycan binding to the CLRs DC-SIGN , Dectin-1 and Dectin-2 has been demonstrated to trigger the signaling capacity of these receptors , modulating DC-mediated T helper cell ( Th ) differentiation and cytokine production by DCs ( Geijtenbeek and Gringhuis , 2009 ) . This illustrates that glycan epitopes may not only improve antigen presentation , but may also affect Th differentiation and shape specific adaptive immune responses . This is underlined by the observation that DC-SIGN signaling induced upon sensing of specific mannose or fucose structures on pathogens differentially directed Th differentiation ( Gringhuis et al . , 2014 ) . Here , we demonstrate that conjugation of the LeX carbohydrate to the model antigen OVA alters its routing from a MR- and TAP1-dependent cross-presentation pathway into a TAP1- and Cathepsin-S-independent pathway , devoid of any TLR-signaling dependence , which simultaneously enhanced CD8+ T cell priming and Th1 skewing of CD4+ T cells . Cross-presentation was associated with prolonged intracellular storage of antigen in Rab11+LAMP1+ vesicles . Our results illustrate that small changes in the glycosylation profile of protein antigens can have a great impact on antigen routing within DCs , affecting cross-presentation and Th cell differentiation . 
Burkholderia thailandensis uses acyl-homoserine lactone-mediated quorum sensing systems to regulate hundreds of genes . Here we show that cell-cell contact-dependent type VI secretion ( T6S ) toxin-immunity systems are among those activated by quorum sensing in B . thailandensis . We also demonstrate that T6S is required to constrain proliferation of quorum sensing mutants in colony cocultures of a BtaR1 quorum-sensing signal receptor mutant and its parent . However , the BtaR1 mutant is not constrained by and outcompetes its parent in broth coculture , presumably because no cell contact occurs and there is a metabolic cost associated with quorum sensing gene activation . The increased fitness of the wild type over the BtaR1 mutant during agar surface growth is dependent on an intact T6SS-1 apparatus . Thus , quorum sensing activates B . thailandensis T6SS-1 growth inhibition and this control serves to police and constrain quorum-sensing mutants . This work defines a novel role for T6SSs in intraspecies mutant control .  Bacterial quorum sensing ( QS ) often controls factors that benefit cells in groups; it controls cooperative activities . A well-studied type of QS common to a number of Proteobacteria species is mediated by acyl-homoserine lactone ( AHL ) signals . AHLs are made by members of the LuxI family of signal synthases . The AHLs can diffuse in and out of cells . At sufficient cell densities , the AHLs accumulate to concentrations needed for expression of specific genes by binding signal receptors of the LuxR family of transcriptional regulators ( for reviews of QS see ( Fuqua et al . , 1996 ) ) . In some bacterial species , QS controls just a few genes and in others it controls hundreds of genes . Genes for production of secreted or excreted products are overrepresented in AHL quorum sensing regulons . These extracellular products have at least in some cases been shown to serve as public goods . Any member of a group can benefit from the public good regardless of whether that individual has contributed its share of the good ( West et al . , 2006 ) . There is a metabolic cost associated with QS and QS-activation of gene expression . QS control of public goods has been studied in some detail in Pseudomonas aeruginosa . Because QS activates production of extracellular proteases , QS signal receptor mutants have a fitness advantage over the wild type when growth is on milk protein as the sole carbon and energy source ( Diggle et al . , 2007; Sandoz et al . , 2007 ) . The receptor mutant fitness advantage presents a conundrum; how is QS-mediated cooperation preserved ? QS itself can be considered a cooperative trait , the QS signal is a public good , and QS is susceptible to exploitation by QS mutant social cheats . In P . aeruginosa , three mechanisms of QS cheater restraint have been demonstrated . The first is a direct benefit-based strategy called metabolic constraint ( Schuster et al . , 2013; Dandekar et al . , 2012 ) ; Quorum sensing activates genes coding for public goods ( such as extracellular proteases ) , as well as a limited set of privately utilized goods ( such as a hydrolase that allows producing cells to utilize adenosine ) . When cells are supplied with both casein and adenosine , QS signal receptor ( LasR ) mutant cheats are penalized and constrained ( Dandekar et al . , 2012 ) . A second mechanism has been called metabolic prudence ( Xavier et al . , 2011 ) where the QS-controlled public good is only made when it’s production is not costly . Metabolic prudence minimizes the cost of cooperation . Recently , a mechanism whereby P . aeruginosa cooperators punish or police cheats has been described . QS competent cooperators produce cyanide and are more resistant to cyanide than QS mutant cheats , and thus the cooperators can constrain cheats by slowing their growth with cyanide ( Wang et al . , 2015 ) . The P . aeruginosa policing is a rare example of this sort of activity in bacteria , and because cyanide production and resistance has some semblance to a toxin-immunity-like mechanism we hypothesis that QS activation of toxin-immunity systems might have some generality as a policing mechanism where QS bacteria can control QS mutants . We recently used RNAseq to identify genes in the Burkholderia thailandensis QS regulon ( Majerczyk et al . , 2014 ) . B . thailandensis has three AHL QS systems , BtaR1-I1 , BtaR2-I2 and BtaR3-I3 ( Ulrich et al . , 2004; Chandler et al . , 2009; Duerkop et al . , 2009 ) . Together , the QS systems control hundreds of genes . The BtaR1-I1 regulon appears to be the largest as BtaR1 regulates >150 genes ( Majerczyk et al . , 2014 ) . We queried the transcriptomics data and discovered that expression of several genes shown to encode Type VI secretion system ( T6SS ) substrates , including characterized toxins and their cognate immunity or antitoxin genes , are activated by QS . Expression of a toxin and its antitoxin results in a toxin-resistant producer cell , which can deliver toxins via the secretion apparatus via cell-cell contact to a sensitive cell thereby inhibiting growth of the sensitive cell ( Russell et al . , 2014 ) . We show that T6S provides wild-type B . thailandensis with an ability to constrain BtaR1 mutants in a contact-dependent manner . This supports the hypothesis that QS activation of toxin-immunity systems can serve as a policing mechanism to control QS mutants growing among QS competent wild-type cells . Our findings also reveal yet another role for T6S in bacteria . T6S has been shown to provide a competitive interspecies or interstrain advantage , and some T6Ss have been shown to play a role in bacterial virulence ( Schwarz et al . , 2010; 2014 ) . Here we describe intraspecific control of QS mutants . This provides a rationale for why T6S toxin and immunity genes might be under QS control . 
The long-range coupling within prefrontal-hippocampal networks that account for cognitive performance emerges early in life . The discontinuous hippocampal theta bursts have been proposed to drive the generation of neonatal prefrontal oscillations , yet the cellular substrate of these early interactions is still unresolved . Here , we selectively target optogenetic manipulation of glutamatergic projection neurons in the CA1 area of either dorsal or intermediate/ventral hippocampus at neonatal age to elucidate their contribution to the emergence of prefrontal oscillatory entrainment . We show that despite stronger theta and ripples power in dorsal hippocampus , the prefrontal cortex is mainly coupled with intermediate/ventral hippocampus by phase-locking of neuronal firing via dense direct axonal projections . Theta band-confined activation by light of pyramidal neurons in intermediate/ventral but not dorsal CA1 that were transfected by in utero electroporation with high-efficiency channelrhodopsin boosts prefrontal oscillations . Our data causally elucidate the cellular origin of the long-range coupling in the developing brain .  In the adult rodent brain , coordinated patterns of oscillatory activity code in a frequency-specific manner for sensory and cognitive performance . For example , learning and memory critically depend on oscillations within theta frequency band ( 4–12 Hz ) that functionally couple the medial prefrontal cortex ( PFC ) and hippocampus ( HP ) ( Siapas and Wilson , 1998; Benchenane et al . , 2010; Brincat and Miller , 2015; Backus et al . , 2016; Eichenbaum , 2017; Wirt and Hyman , 2017 ) . These frequency-tuned brain states are present already during early development , long before the memory and attentional abilities have fully matured . They have been extensively characterized and categorized according to their spatial and temporal structure ( Lindemann et al . , 2016 ) . Network oscillations during development have a highly discontinuous and fragmented structure with bursts of activity alternating with ‘silent’ periods ( Hanganu et al . , 2006; Seelke and Blumberg , 2010; Shen and Colonnese , 2016; Luhmann and Khazipov , 2018 ) . The most common oscillatory pattern , spindle bursts , synchronizes large cortical and subcortical networks within theta-alpha frequency range . It is accompanied by slow delta waves as well as by faster discharges ( beta and gamma oscillations ) that account for local activation of circuits ( Brockmann et al . , 2011; Yang et al . , 2016 ) . In the absence of direct behavioral correlates , a mechanistic understanding of oscillatory rhythms in the developing brain is currently lacking . In sensory systems , spindle bursts have been proposed to act as a template facilitating the formation of cortical maps ( Dupont et al . , 2006; Hanganu et al . , 2006; Tolner et al . , 2012 ) , whereas early gamma oscillations seem to control the organization of thalamocortical topography ( Minlebaev et al . , 2011; Khazipov et al . , 2013 ) . In limbic systems dedicated to mnemonic and executive abilities , the knowledge on the relevance of early network oscillations is even sparser . Few lesion studies , yet without selectivity for specific activity patterns , suggested that prefrontal-hippocampal communication during development might be necessary for the maturation of episodic memory ( Krüger et al . , 2012 ) . Temporal associations between the firing and synaptic discharges of individual neurons and network oscillations in different frequency bands gave first insights into the cellular substrate of coordinated activity in neonates . Whereas in sensory systems , endogenous activation of sensory periphery drives entrainment of local circuitry through gap junction coupling as well as glutamatergic and GABAergic transmission ( Dupont et al . , 2006; Hanganu et al . , 2006; Minlebaev et al . , 2009 ) , in developing prefrontal-hippocampal networks , the excitatory drive from the HP has been proposed to activate a complex layer- and frequency-specific interplay in the PFC ( Brockmann et al . , 2011; Bitzenhofer and Hanganu-Opatz , 2014; Bitzenhofer et al . , 2015 ) . While most of this correlative evidence put forward the relevance of early oscillations beyond a simple epiphenomenal signature of developing networks , direct evidence for their causal contribution to circuit maturation is still missing . This is mainly due to the absence of a causal interrogation of developing networks , similarly to the investigations done in adult ones . Only recently the methodological difficulties related to area- , layer- and cell type-specific manipulations at neonatal age have been overcome ( Bitzenhofer et al . , 2017a; Bitzenhofer et al . , 2017b ) . By these means , the local neuronal interplay generating beta-gamma oscillations in the PFC has been elucidated . However , the long-range coupling causing the activation of local prefrontal circuits is still unresolved . We previously proposed that the hippocampal CA1 area drives the oscillatory entrainment of PFC at neonatal age ( Brockmann et al . , 2011 ) . Here , we developed a methodological approach to optically manipulate the neonatal HP along its septo-temporal axis . We provide causal evidence that theta frequency-specific activation of pyramidal neurons in the CA1 area of intermediate and ventral ( i/vHP ) , but not of dorsal HP ( dHP ) elicits broad band oscillations in the PFC of neonatal mice via dense axonal projections . 
Dynamic post-translational modification of RNA polymerase II ( RNAPII ) coordinates the co-transcriptional recruitment of enzymatic complexes that regulate chromatin states and processing of nascent RNA . Extensive phosphorylation of serine residues at the largest RNAPII subunit occurs at its structurally-disordered C-terminal domain ( CTD ) , which is composed of multiple heptapeptide repeats with consensus sequence Y1-S2-P3-T4-S5-P6-S7 . Serine-5 and Serine-7 phosphorylation mark transcription initiation , whereas Serine-2 phosphorylation coincides with productive elongation . In vertebrates , the CTD has eight non-canonical substitutions of Serine-7 into Lysine-7 , which can be acetylated ( K7ac ) . Here , we describe mono- and di-methylation of CTD Lysine-7 residues ( K7me1 and K7me2 ) . K7me1 and K7me2 are observed during the earliest transcription stages and precede or accompany Serine-5 and Serine-7 phosphorylation . In contrast , K7ac is associated with RNAPII elongation , Serine-2 phosphorylation and mRNA expression . We identify an unexpected balance between RNAPII K7 methylation and acetylation at gene promoters , which fine-tunes gene expression levels .  Transcription of protein-coding genes is a complex process involving a sequence of RNA processing events that occur at different stages of the transcription cycle . Co-transcriptional recruitment of chromatin modifiers and RNA processing machinery is modulated through a complex array of post-translational modifications at the C-terminal domain ( CTD ) of RPB1 , the largest subunit of RNAPII . This unique domain constitutes a docking platform for protein complexes that cap , splice and polyadenylate newly-made RNAs ( Bentley , 2014; Buratowski , 2009; Egloff et al . , 2012; Eick and Geyer , 2013; Hsin and Manley , 2012 ) . The CTD also integrates signaling cascades that , for example , coordinate the DNA damage response and chromatin remodeling with gene expression ( Munoz et al . , 2009; Winsor et al . , 2013 ) . The CTD is a large , structurally disordered domain composed of a tandem heptapeptide repeat structure with the canonical sequence Y1-S2-P3-T4-S5-P6-S7 . Extensive remodeling of the CTD occurs during distinct steps of the transcription cycle ( Buratowski , 2003 , 2009 ) . RNAPII binds to promoter regions in a hypophosphorylated state , before the CTD becomes phosphorylated at Serine-5 ( S5p ) and Serine-7 ( S7p ) , marking the earliest stages of transcription ( Akhtar et al . , 2009; Chapman et al . , 2007; Tietjen et al . , 2010 ) . Productive elongation is characterized by an increase in phosphorylation of Serine-2 ( S2p ) throughout gene bodies , with the highest levels found around transcription end sites ( TES ) . S5p is important for recruitment of the capping machinery , while S2p is involved in the recruitment of splicing and polyadenylation factors ( Corden , 2013; Ghosh et al . , 2011; Gu et al . , 2013; Lunde et al . , 2010 ) . Although the tandem repeat structure of the CTD was acquired very early in eukaryotic evolution , and general features of serine phosphorylation are fairly conserved from yeast to mammals , the number of repeats is highly variable among different taxa ( Chapman et al . , 2008; Yang and Stiller , 2014 ) . The most complex multicellular organisms , such as vertebrates , generally have longer CTDs ( e . g . 52 heptad repeats in mammals ) , whereas Drosophila melanogaster , Caenorhabditis elegans and unicellular yeast have 44 , 42 and 26–29 copies , respectively . The mammalian CTD retains a core of 21 consensus repeats , but has accumulated a diversity of non-consensus repeats , particularly at its most C-terminal region ( Figure 1a ) . In vertebrates , non-canonical amino-acid residues occur most frequently at the seventh position of the heptapeptide repeat , and the most frequent substitution replaces the canonical S7 residue with a lysine ( K7; Figure 1a ) . The number of non-canonical K7-containing repeats increases from zero in yeast to one , three and eight repeats in C . elegans , D . melanogaster and vertebrates , respectively ( Figure 1b ) . Previous work has shown that non-canonical CTD-K7 residues can be acetylated , and that CTD-K7ac is associated with transcriptional pausing at epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) -inducible genes in mouse fibroblasts ( Schroeder et al . , 2013 ) . Evolutionary analyses also suggest that CTD-K7ac played a role in the origin of complex Metazoan lineages ( Simonti et al . , 2015 ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 11215 . 003Figure 1 . Structure and evolutionary conservation of the C-terminal domain of RPB1 . ( a ) Mouse RPB1 CTD is composed of 52 heptapeptide repeats with consensus amino-acid sequence YSPTSPS , which is represented 21 times at the most proximal CTD region . Non-consensus amino acids are enriched for at the distal region . Most abundant non-consensus residues are lysines , all found at heptad position 7 ( K7; represented in red ) . Other non-consensus residues are represented in blue . ( b ) Amino-acid sequence alignment of the most distal part of the CTD containing K7 residues across different species: Mus musculus ( M . mus ) ; Xenopus tropicalis ( X . tro ) ; Danio rerio ( D . rer ) ; Drosophila melanogaster ( D . mel ) ; and , Caenorhabditis elegans ( C . ele ) . Conservation of CTD K7 residues is highlighted in yellow . CTD repeat numbering was done according to the mouse CTD sequence between repeats 35 and 49 , and aligned to the other species CTDs from the position of the repeat containing the first lysine in each organism . RPB1 , RNA polymerase II large subunit; CTD , C-terminal domain . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 11215 . 003 To further explore the increasing complexity of CTD modifications over evolution , their temporal sequence , and how they interplay with each other , we have investigated the possibility of additional modification of non-canonical CTD residues . We identify mono- and di-methylation of CTD-K7 residues in both vertebrates and invertebrates . We produce new antibodies specific to CTD-K7me1 and CTD-K7me2 and show that these novel modifications precede or accompany phosphorylation of S5 and S7 , upstream of S2 phosphorylation . Using biochemical and genome-wide approaches , we show that CTD-K7 methylation is present at the promoters of genes that are productively transcribed into mature RNA , but defines the earliest stages of the transcription cycle . Through detailed analysis of abundance and distribution of different CTD modifications at gene promoters in embryonic stem ( ES ) cells , we show that gene expression levels depend on the balance between CTD-K7 methylation and acetylation . 
Skeletal muscle satellite cells in their niche are quiescent and upon muscle injury , exit quiescence , proliferate to repair muscle tissue , and self-renew to replenish the satellite cell population . To understand the mechanisms involved in maintaining satellite cell quiescence , we identified gene transcripts that were differentially expressed during satellite cell activation following muscle injury . Transcripts encoding RNA binding proteins were among the most significantly changed and included the mRNA decay factor Tristetraprolin . Tristetraprolin promotes the decay of MyoD mRNA , which encodes a transcriptional regulator of myogenic commitment , via binding to the MyoD mRNA 3′ untranslated region . Upon satellite cell activation , p38α/β MAPK phosphorylates MAPKAP2 and inactivates Tristetraprolin , stabilizing MyoD mRNA . Satellite cell specific knockdown of Tristetraprolin precociously activates satellite cells in vivo , enabling MyoD accumulation , differentiation and cell fusion into myofibers . Regulation of mRNAs by Tristetraprolin appears to function as one of several critical post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms controlling satellite cell homeostasis .  Skeletal muscle satellite cells ( SCs ) are maintained as a quiescent stem cell population ( Schultz , 1976 ) possessing minimal cytoplasm , condensed chromatin , and few ribosomes ( Wakayama et al . , 1979 ) . Upon muscle injury , SCs activate and then enter S-phase to generate a proliferating myoblast population that differentiates , repairs skeletal muscle tissue , and self-renews to replenish the stem cell pool ( Cornelison et al . , 2001 ) . Induction of MyoD , a myogenic regulatory transcription factor , is a critical component of this activation cascade . Prior to MyoD induction , and immediately upon satellite cell activation , the p38α/β MAPK pathway is activated , serving as a molecular switch ( Jones et al . , 2005 ) . In a subset of SCs , p38α/β is asymmetrically activated during cell division to promote SC self-renewal and re-acquisition of quiescence ( Troy et al . , 2012 ) . Moreover , aged SCs exhibit an intrinsic self-renewal deficit that arises in part from a failure to asymmetrically activate p38α/β MAPK ( Bernet et al . , 2014 ) . Importantly , post-transcriptional gene regulatory mechanisms , including translational repression , contribute to SC activation and play a key role in the maintenance of the quiescent SC state ( Crist et al . , 2012 ) . TTP ( Tristetraprolin ) , a target of the p38α/β MAPK pathway , binds to AU-rich elements within the 3′ untranslated region ( 3′ UTR ) of target transcripts and recruits deadenylases , initiating mRNA decay ( Lai et al . , 2000 ) . Rates of mRNA decay , which fluctuate depending on cellular conditions , are controlled by specialized mRNA binding proteins ( RBPs ) that bind target mRNAs and activate cellular mRNA decay enzymes ( Parker and Song , 2004 ) . TTP is the best studied of the four member Tis11 gene family , which is comprised of the genes: Zfp36 ( TTP ) , Zfp36l1 , Zfp36l2 and Zfp36l3 . In macrophages , TTP suppresses the inflammation response by destabilizing proinflammatory mRNAs until extracellular stimuli activate p38α/β MAPK ( Stumpo et al . , 2010 ) . The p38α/β MAPK signaling pathway then phosphorylates TTP , promoting association with 14-3-3 adaptor proteins and blocking the recruitment of deadenylases , thereby stabilizing transcripts with TTP 3′ UTR binding sites ( Clement et al . , 2011 ) . TTP loss-of-function has profound effects on overall organismal health and is associated with a severe inflammatory syndrome caused by chronic over-expression of Tumor Necrosis Factor ( TNF ) α mRNA , as loss of TNF receptor function largely rescues TTP KO phenotypes in TTP/TNFR1/2 triple knockout mice ( Carballo et al . , 2001 ) . Transcripts encoding TTP family members are among the fastest declining and dynamically regulated mRNAs following SC activation , where the transcripts initially decline and then are re-expressed ( Farina et al . , 2012 ) . Consistent with this observation , we identified the MyoD 3′ UTR as a TTP substrate , and show that p38α/β MAPK-mediated phosphorylation of TTP regulates MyoD mRNA decay , thereby regulating SC activation . Therefore our data , combined with recent reports of miRNA-mediated regulation of SC quiescence ( Cheung et al . , 2012; Crist et al . , 2012 ) , identify post-transcriptional gene regulation as an effective and potent means of maintaining SC homeostasis in adult skeletal muscle . 
Infants with defects in the interleukin 10 receptor ( IL10R ) develop very early onset inflammatory bowel disease . Whether IL10R regulates lamina propria macrophage function during infant development in mice and whether macrophage-intrinsic IL10R signaling is required to prevent colitis in infancy is unknown . Here we show that although signs of colitis are absent in IL10R-deficient mice during the first two weeks of life , intestinal inflammation and macrophage dysfunction begin during the third week of life , concomitant with weaning and accompanying diversification of the intestinal microbiota . However , IL10R did not directly regulate the microbial ecology during infant development . Interestingly , macrophage depletion with clodronate inhibited the development of colitis , while the absence of IL10R specifically on macrophages sensitized infant mice to the development of colitis . These results indicate that IL10R-mediated regulation of macrophage function during the early postnatal period is indispensable for preventing the development of murine colitis .  Inflammatory bowel diseases ( IBD ) including Crohn’s disease ( CD ) and ulcerative colitis ( UC ) are thought to result from the interaction of microbial and environmental factors with a genetically susceptible host . While IBD susceptibility is generally considered to arise from complex genetic risk in adolescent and adult patients , those who develop symptoms during infancy ( age <2 ) , or before 6 years of age ( very early onset IBD , VEOIBD ) , often present with disease refractory to conventional therapies and are more likely to have disease-causative single gene mutations ( Uhlig et al . , 2014 ) . A detailed understanding of disease pathogenesis in infants , as well as model systems that recapitulate infantile-onset IBD , may lead to fundamental insights into the etiology of IBD , and identify novel therapeutic strategies . In this regard , rare loss-of-function mutations in IL10 , or its receptors IL10RA or IL10RB in humans lead to infantile onset IBD ( Glocker et al . , 2010 , 2009; Moran et al . , 2013; Shouval et al . , 2014a; Kotlarz et al . , 2012 ) , suggesting that the IL10/IL10R pathway is essential for intestinal mucosal homeostasis and prevention of intestinal inflammation in infancy . Thus , modeling infantile-onset colitis in mice that lack functional IL10R signaling could lead to significant advances in our understanding of the etiopathogenesis of these diseases . IL10 is a potent anti-inflammatory cytokine that inhibits proinflammatory and co-stimulatory function in both innate and adaptive immune cells ( Ding and Shevach , 1992; Fiorentino et al . , 1991; Saraiva and O'Garra , 2010 ) . Like humans , mice deficient in IL10 or the IL10R on the 129SvEv background develop chronic spontaneous colitis ( Kang et al . , 2008; Kühn et al . , 1993; Spencer et al . , 1998 ) , strongly supporting the concept that IL10 signaling plays a central role in preventing mucosal inflammation . These murine models have enabled investigations into the cellular and microbial factors that contribute to the development of IBD . However , because colitis in these models presents after an extended latency , understanding the developmental events early in life that contribute to disease development remain to be defined . The IL10 receptor ( IL10R ) is a heterotetramer consisting of two chains of ligand-binding IL10Rα ( IL10R1 ) and two subunits of signaling IL10Rβ ( IL10R2 ) ( Donnelly et al . , 2004; Moore et al . , 2001 ) . The IL10R is expressed on cells of both the innate and adaptive immune compartments and a number of studies have highlighted the role of IL10R on subsets of regulatory T cells and T helper 17 ( Th17 ) cells in preventing the development of colitis ( Chaudhry et al . , 2011; Huber et al . , 2011; Kamanaka et al . , 2011; Murai et al . , 2009 ) . Recently , we and others have demonstrated a requirement for IL10R in innate immune cells to prevent murine colitis ( Li et al . , 2015; Shouval et al . , 2014b , 2016; Zigmond et al . , 2014 ) . In addition , we have shown excessive accumulation of inflammatory Ly6C+ monocytes within the colons of colitic IL10R-deficient mice as well as defects in the differentiation of both murine and human anti-inflammatory macrophages ( MΦs ) defective in IL10R signaling ( Shouval et al . , 2014b ) . It has previously been shown that intestinal microbiota promotes the accumulation of Ly6C+ monocytes within the lamina propria ( LP ) ( Bain et al . , 2014 ) and there is ample evidence that the microbiota is intimately involved in the development of colitis in many susceptible mouse models including mice lacking IL10 signaling ( Kang et al . , 2008; Sellon et al . , 1998 ) . Taken together , these studies imply that IL10R signaling on intestinal MΦs prevents microbially-driven recruitment of Ly6C+ monocytes and the development of intestinal inflammation . While the studies outlined above demonstrate the critical role of IL10R signaling within MΦs in preventing inflammatory responses in the large intestine , the colitis that develops spontaneously in mice that are completely-deficient in IL10R or that specifically lack IL10R within CX3CR1+ MΦs manifest with a prolonged latency of several weeks , and is strain- and microbiota-dependent ( Kang et al . , 2008; Kühn et al . , 1993; Spencer et al . , 1998; Zigmond et al . , 2014 ) . Given that colitis in infants lacking functional IL10R is an aggressive disease that presents very early in life ( Glocker et al . , 2009; Shouval et al . , 2014a ) , it is unclear whether the same cellular mechanisms observed in adult mice lacking IL10R are in fact operating within the time frame of infant development . Furthermore , it has not been determined whether specific developmental events during the post-partum period such as initial bacterial colonization at the time of birth , or the diversification of the infant microbiome that occurs at the time of weaning are influenced by the absence of IL10R and/or play catalytic roles in driving inflammation in the absence of IL10R . To address these issues , we performed detailed time-series experiments using IL10R-deficient infant mice and their littermate co-housed controls , and evaluated histology , inflammatory gene expression , cellular composition of the LP , and luminal bacterial communities from birth to 14 weeks of age . We used clodronate depletion to investigate the role of colonic MΦs in colonic inflammation that develops in infant IL10R-deficient mice . In addition , we analyzed the onset of colitis in crosses between C57BL/6 mice lacking IL10Rα specifically in MΦs and those carrying a genetic locus driving colitis susceptibility , Cdcs1 , neither of which independently develop colitis . Our data demonstrate that the requirement for macrophage-intrinsic IL10R signaling develops during a critical developmental transition , which has important implications for understanding factors that initiate colitis in infants with genetic deficiencies in IL10R signaling . 
piRNAs play a critical role in the regulation of transposons and other germline genes . In Caenorhabditis elegans , regulation of piRNA target genes is mediated by the mutator complex , which synthesizes high levels of siRNAs through the activity of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase . However , the steps between mRNA recognition by the piRNA pathway and siRNA amplification by the mutator complex are unknown . Here , we identify the Tudor domain protein , SIMR-1 , as acting downstream of piRNA production and upstream of mutator complex-dependent siRNA biogenesis . Interestingly , SIMR-1 also localizes to distinct subcellular foci adjacent to P granules and Mutator foci , two phase-separated condensates that are the sites of piRNA-dependent mRNA recognition and mutator complex-dependent siRNA amplification , respectively . Thus , our data suggests a role for multiple perinuclear condensates in organizing the piRNA pathway and promoting mRNA regulation by the mutator complex .  In many eukaryotes , small RNAs , ranging from ~18–30 nucleotides in length , regulate cellular mRNAs through sequence complementarity . Argonaute proteins are key mediators of RNA silencing; by binding to small RNAs , which interact with fully or partially complementary mRNAs , the Argonaute proteins can promote transcription repression , translation inhibition , and RNA decay of targeted mRNAs ( Hutvagner and Simard , 2008; Claycomb , 2014 ) . Through this regulation of both endogenous and foreign RNAs , small RNAs play key roles in maintaining proper gene expression and silencing deleterious RNAs ( Claycomb , 2014; Ketting , 2011 ) . A subclass of small RNAs , known as piRNAs , is critical for germ cell function , including silencing of transposons and other germline mRNAs ( Ketting , 2011; Weick and Miska , 2014 ) . piRNAs are bound by a subgroup of Argonaute proteins called Piwi proteins , of which C . elegans has a single functional homolog , PRG-1 ( Batista et al . , 2008; Das et al . , 2008; Wang and Reinke , 2008 ) . In many organisms , including mammals , flies , and zebrafish , piRNAs are amplified through the ping-pong mechanism ( Brennecke et al . , 2007; Aravin et al . , 2007; Gunawardane et al . , 2007; Houwing et al . , 2007 ) . This mechanism , however , is not found in nematodes . Rather , C . elegans employs a different mechanism to reinforce silencing at piRNA target loci . In C . elegans , a small RNA amplification pathway dependent on the mutator complex , which includes an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase , synthesizes secondary downstream siRNAs from piRNA-targeted mRNAs to trigger robust and heritable silencing ( Das et al . , 2008; Lee et al . , 2012; Bagijn et al . , 2012; Shirayama et al . , 2012; Ashe et al . , 2012 ) . These siRNAs are approximately 22-nt long , often start with a 5’G , and are bound by the WAGO clade of Argonaute proteins , including WAGO-1 , therefore , they are often referred to as WAGO-class 22G-siRNAs ( Pak and Fire , 2007; Sijen et al . , 2007; Yigit et al . , 2006; Gu et al . , 2009 ) . In addition to the Piwi proteins , a major player in the piRNA pathway is the Tudor domain protein family . Tudor domain proteins in many organisms , including both mouse and Drosophila , play critical roles in piRNA accumulation and mRNA target regulation through their interaction with PIWI proteins ( Reuter et al . , 2009; Chen et al . , 2011; Nishida et al . , 2009 ) . The Tudor domain is a conserved structural motif originally identified in the Drosophila protein Tudor ( Boswell and Mahowald , 1985; Ponting , 1997; Callebaut and Mornon , 1997 ) . Tudor domains , which function as protein-protein interaction modules , recognize methylated arginines or lysines and thus can mediate protein interactions in a methylation-specific manner ( Friesen et al . , 2001; Chen et al . , 2011 ) . Most often , methylarginine-binding Tudor domain proteins are associated with RNA metabolism , while methyllysine-binding Tudor domain proteins are involved in chromatin biology ( Chen et al . , 2011 ) . Interestingly , Tudor domain proteins affiliated with the piRNA pathway often interact with an additional conserved element flanking the Tudor domain core referred to as the extended Tudor domain , which is required for their ability to recognize peptides containing a methylated arginine modification ( Chen et al . , 2011; Liu et al . , 2010a; Liu et al . , 2010b ) . The extended Tudor domain preferentially recognizes symmetrically dimethylated arginine ( sDMA ) modifications over monomethylated arginines ( MMA ) , asymmetrically dimethylated arginines ( aDMA ) , or unmodified peptides; however , some extended Tudor domain proteins have lost the ability to bind the methylated arginine mark and recognize only unmodified peptides ( Liu et al . , 2010b; Zhang et al . , 2017 ) . These arginine methylation modifications are often found within the context of arginine-glycine ( RG ) and arginine-alanine ( RA ) repeats and are catalyzed by the activity of Protein Arginine Methyl Transferases ( PRMTs ) ( Kirino et al . , 2009; Vagin et al . , 2009; Reuter et al . , 2009; Webster et al . , 2015; Liu et al . , 2010a; Nishida et al . , 2009 ) . Many components of the piRNA pathway , including some Piwi and Tudor domain proteins , are localized to membrane-less , cytoplasmic compartments at the periphery of germline nuclei . In Drosophila , the piRNA pathway components localize to a compartment referred to as nuage , and in C . elegans , these components localize to the P granule . Seminal work in C . elegans has shown that P granules assemble by intracellular phase separation ( Brangwynne et al . , 2009 ) . More recently , both Mutator foci , the sites of secondary siRNA biogenesis by the mutator complex , and Z granules , which are required for RNAi inheritance , have been shown to be phase-separated biomolecular condensates which lie adjacent to one another and the P granule at the nuclear periphery ( Uebel et al . , 2018; Wan et al . , 2018 ) . This assembly of condensates can be referred to as PZM granules or as nuage . These discoveries have led to an intriguing model where the small RNA pathway is temporally and spatially organized into membrane-less organelles , with distinct steps of the silencing pathway occurring in neighboring condensates , while still allowing for trafficking of RNAs and perhaps some proteins between condensates . Here we identify a protein required to coordinate RNA silencing between the piRNA pathway in P granules and siRNA amplification in Mutator foci . Specifically , through proteomic analysis of MUT-16 , we identified an uncharacterized Tudor domain protein , SIMR-1 ( siRNA-defective and mortal germline ) . Unlike mut-16 mutants , simr-1 mutants are not defective in exogenous RNAi , but do have a transgenerational sterility phenotype at elevated temperature . Interestingly , while SIMR-1 is not required for production of piRNAs or the expression of PRG-1 , simr-1 mutants fail to produce high levels of siRNAs from many piRNA-target loci . These data suggest that SIMR-1 may act at a step in between PRG-1 targeting and siRNA biogenesis by the mutator complex . Finally , we demonstrate that SIMR-1 localizes to perinuclear foci , adjacent to , but distinct from Mutator foci , P granules and Z granules , which we name SIMR foci . Therefore , this work identifies SIMR-1 as a factor that acts downstream of PRG-1 to mediate the production of secondary siRNAs by the mutator complex , and suggests a role for multiple perinuclear condensates to promote mRNA regulation by the piRNA pathway and mutator complex . 
Purkinje neurons are central to cerebellar function and show membrane bistability when recorded in vitro or in vivo under anesthesia . The existence of bistability in vivo in awake animals is disputed . Here , by recording intracellularly from Purkinje neurons in unanesthetized larval zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) , we unequivocally demonstrate bistability in these neurons . Tonic firing was seen in depolarized regimes and bursting at hyperpolarized membrane potentials . In addition , Purkinje neurons could switch from one state to another spontaneously or with current injection . While GABAAR or NMDAR were not required for bursting , activation of AMPARs by climbing fibers ( CFs ) was sufficient to trigger bursts . Further , by recording Purkinje neuron membrane potential intracellularly , and motor neuron spikes extracellularly , we show that initiation of motor neuron spiking is correlated with increased incidence of CF EPSPs and membrane depolarization . Developmentally , bistability was observed soon after Purkinje neuron specification and persists at least until late larval stages .  Cerebellar Purkinje neurons have long fascinated neuroscientists due to their elaborate dendritic arbors ( Ramón y Cajal , 1911 ) , and their high rates of spontaneous activity in vitro ( Llinás and Sugimori , 1980; Raman and Bean , 1999; Han and Bell , 2003 ) and in vivo ( Armstrong et al . , 1979; Kitamura and Häusser , 2011 ) . Being the sole output neuron of the cerebellar cortex , the firing patterns of Purkinje neurons are functionally significant for motor co-ordination and motor learning ( Thach , 1968; Medina , 2011; Yang and Lisberger , 2014; Hewitt et al . , 2015 ) . In addition , mammalian Purkinje neurons exhibit membrane bistability in vitro ( Llinás and Sugimori , 1980; Oldfield et al . , 2010 ) and in vivo under anesthesia ( Loewenstein et al . , 2005; Schonewille et al . , 2006 ) , transitioning between ‘up’ and ‘down’ states . The existence of bistability in Purkinje neurons of awake animals has been the subject of some debate ( Schonewille et al . , 2006; Yartsev et al . , 2009; Engbers et al . , 2013 ) not least because of the difficulty of obtaining intracellular recordings from Purkinje neurons of awake animals . Zebrafish are a convenient model system for studying the intracellular dynamics of Purkinje neurons using whole-cell patch clamp recording in vivo in the context of simple motor behaviors . The zebrafish cerebellum has three major parts namely , the corpus cerebelli ( CCe ) , the valvula cerebelli ( Va ) and the vestibulo lateral lobe which is subdivided into eminentia granularis and lobus caudalis cerebelli ( Bae et al . , 2009; Hibi and Shimizu , 2012 ) . Of these only the CCe and Va show the characteristic three layered architecture ( Hashimoto and Hibi , 2012 ) . We have focused on Purkinje neurons in the CCe . The structure and circuitry of CCe in zebrafish are similar to that seen in electric fish and in mammals ( Meek et al . , 2008; Hashimoto and Hibi , 2012 ) . As in mammals , Purkinje neurons in zebrafish also receive excitatory inputs from parallel fibers ( PFs ) and climbing fibers ( CFs ) and inhibition from stellate cells ( Figure 1A ) . Purkinje neurons in zebrafish , similar to mammalian Purkinje neurons , also have large planar dendritic arbors decorated with spines ( Miyamura and Nakayasu , 2001 ) . However , unlike mammals , zebrafish Purkinje neurons do not project to deeper layers but to efferent cells whose somata are present in the Purkinje cell layer or slightly ventral to it ( Bae et al . , 2009; Takeuchi et al . , 2015 ) . These efferent cells , also called the eurydendroid cells , receive short axons from the Purkinje neurons , send long projections outside the cerebellum ( Bae et al . , 2009; Heap et al . , 2013; Takeuchi et al . , 2015 ) and are equivalent to the mammalian deep cerebellar nuclear cells ( Figure 1A ) . Zebrin II ( aldolase-c , fructose bis-phosphate , a; aldoca ) is expressed in all Purkinje neurons in zebrafish ( Miyamura and Nakayasu , 2001; Bae et al . , 2009 ) , although it is expressed in only a subset of Purkinje neurons in mammals ( Doré et al . , 1990; Brochu et al . , 1990; Leclerc et al . , 1992; Sillitoe et al . , 2004 ) and birds ( Pakan et al . , 2007; Iwaniuk et al . , 2009; Corfield et al . , 2015; Vibulyaseck et al . , 2015 ) . We use the aldoca promoter to fluorescently label Purkinje neurons specifically so as to target them for whole-cell patch clamp recordings ( Tanabe et al . , 2010; Takeuchi et al . , 2015 ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 09158 . 003Figure 1 . Zebrafish cerebellar circuitry and experimental preparation . ( A ) Schematic of the cerebellar circuitry in zebrafish . PN: Purkinje neuron; E: Eurydendroid cell; G: Granule cell; S: Stellate cell . ( B ) Schematic of the set up for in vivo whole cell recordings in unanesthetized zebrafish larvae . ( C ) Schematic of the zebrafish larval brain with the cerebellum in green . ( D ) Mosaic expression of aldoca:gap43-Venus in Purkinje neurons . ( E ) Patched cell shown filled with sulphorhodamine . ( F ) Co-localization of sulphorhodamine filled cell with membrane-targeted Venus expression . Scale bar = 10 μm . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 09158 . 003 In zebrafish , cerebellar cells start to differentiate at three days post fertilization ( dpf ) and a simple layered structure forms by 5 dpf ( Bae et al . , 2009 ) . Purkinje neurons appear at 2 . 8 dpf and their numbers stabilize at around 300 neurons by 5 dpf ( Bae et al . , 2009; Hamling et al . , 2015 ) . By this stage , PF and CF inputs to Purkinje neurons are already present ( Bae et al . , 2009; Takeuchi et al . , 2015; Hamling et al . , 2015 ) . Previous studies using calcium imaging and extracellular recording have shown that Purkinje neurons are electrically active at 6–7 dpf ( Ahrens et al . , 2012; Hsieh et al . , 2014; Matsui et al . , 2014 ) . Here , we undertake a thorough characterization of spontaneous activity patterns in Purkinje neurons of larval zebrafish . We show that zebrafish Purkinje neurons exhibit membrane bistability in vivo and that the state changes are dependent on AMPAR-mediated CF inputs . 
Force generation by actin assembly shapes cellular membranes . An experimentally constrained multiscale model shows that a minimal branched actin network is sufficient to internalize endocytic pits against membrane tension . Around 200 activated Arp2/3 complexes are required for robust internalization . A newly developed molecule-counting method determined that ~200 Arp2/3 complexes assemble at sites of clathrin-mediated endocytosis in human cells . Simulations predict that actin self-organizes into a radial branched array with growing ends oriented toward the base of the pit . Long actin filaments bend between attachment sites in the coat and the base of the pit . Elastic energy stored in bent filaments , whose presence was confirmed by cryo-electron tomography , contributes to endocytic internalization . Elevated membrane tension directs more growing filaments toward the base of the pit , increasing actin nucleation and bending for increased force production . Thus , spatially constrained actin filament assembly utilizes an adaptive mechanism enabling endocytosis under varying physical constraints .  Cells polymerize actin filaments to produce force and provide mechanical integrity for a variety of cellular processes , from cytokinesis and cell migration , to membrane reshaping and trafficking ( Pollard , 2016 ) . For each cellular process , actin filaments organize into a specific geometry that confers structural integrity and force-generation capacity . Most membrane deformation processes use branched actin networks nucleated by the Arp2/3 complex , a branched actin filament network nucleator ( Carlsson , 2018; Rotty et al . , 2013 ) . On a large ( µm ) length scale , branched actin networks drive the plasma membrane forward during cell migration , such that on the scale of individual actin branches , the membrane shape can be thought of as more or less constant ( Keren et al . , 2008; Mueller et al . , 2017; Schaus et al . , 2007 ) . However , on a smaller ( sub-micron ) length scale , branched actin networks deform many cellular membranes as part of organelle and vesicle biogenesis and function ( Rottner et al . , 2017 ) . The relationship between cellular membrane curvature and local actin assembly for each of these ‘local’ membrane-deformation processes remains relatively unexplored ( Daste et al . , 2017 ) . Clathrin-mediated endocytosis ( CME ) is an especially attractive process for studies of actin’s role in membrane shape changes due to the relatively complete parts list and available quantitative information about the positions , recruitment timing and biochemical function of many of the participating proteins ( Arasada et al . , 2018; Idrissi et al . , 2012; Kaksonen et al . , 2005; Kaksonen et al . , 2003; Mund et al . , 2018; Picco et al . , 2015; Sochacki et al . , 2017; Taylor et al . , 2011 ) . CME is a ubiquitous and essential cellular process by which cells take macromolecules from the extracellular space and the plasma membrane into the cell interior ( Kaksonen and Roux , 2018 ) . During CME , the plasma membrane is bent , pinched , and pulled inward in a time frame of ~60 s thereby transitioning from a flat sheet into a spherical vesicle ~100 nm in diameter . Clathrin and its adaptor proteins establish a coat that generates initial membrane curvature ( Chen et al . , 1998; Pearse , 1976; Stachowiak et al . , 2012 ) , and BAR ( bin-amphiphysin-rvs ) -domain proteins bind curved membranes and support further membrane curvature ( Buser and Drubin , 2013; David et al . , 1996; Kishimoto et al . , 2011 ) . During yeast endocytosis , branched actin filaments provide the force required for membrane tubule formation ( Engqvist-Goldstein and Drubin , 2003; Idrissi et al . , 2012; Kukulski et al . , 2012; Picco et al . , 2018; Sun et al . , 2006; Wang and Carlsson , 2017 ) . In metazoan cells , endocytic pits under high tension stall at a ‘U’-shaped intermediate in the absence of functional actin ( Boulant et al . , 2011 ) , implying that actin is required to generate plasma membrane shape changes late in CME ( Hassinger et al . , 2017; Yarar et al . , 2005; Yoshida et al . , 2018 ) . The molecular mechanism by which a network of polarized , branched actin filaments assembles at these sites for productive force generation is poorly understood . Actin network assembly is known to play a key role in membrane shape change in some contexts . For example , mathematical modeling ( Berro et al . , 2010; Carlsson and Bayly , 2014; Dmitrieff and Nédélec , 2015; Liu et al . , 2009; Mund et al . , 2018; Wang et al . , 2016 ) and quantitative fluorescence imaging in yeast ( Wu and Pollard , 2005; Sirotkin et al . , 2010; Berro and Pollard , 2014; Picco et al . , 2015 ) have established the relationship between actin filament assembly and plasma membrane shape particular to fungi , which have unique mechanical requirements due to very high ( ~10 atm ) hydrostatic turgor pressure . However , less is known about actin organization and function in the lower force regime characteristic of metazoan cells . A multiscale modeling effort that accounts for the mechanics of single actin filaments and that is constrained by experimental measurements of actin dynamics , spatial organization of the filaments , and tension in the plasma membrane is required to gain insight into actin organization and force generation capacity . We hypothesize that in localized membrane-reshaping processes such as endocytosis , branched actin networks assemble under specific spatial ‘boundary conditions , ’ which serve as geometrical constraints dictated both by the shape of the membrane and the spatial segregation of membrane-associated proteins that interact with actin . These unique spatial boundary conditions on a curved surface , combined with the knowledge of numbers of molecules in cells and known reaction rate constants , provide the necessary information for multiscale modeling and a mechanistic framework to understand the relationship between plasma membrane mechanics and branched actin assembly and mechanics associated with CME . Using this framework , we sought to answer the following questions: How do branched actin networks assemble , organize , and produce force around an endocytic pit ? How does the spatial segregation of Arp2/3 complex activators ( Almeida-Souza et al . , 2018; Mund et al . , 2018 ) and actin-binding proteins associated with endocytic coats ( Clarke and Royle , 2018; Engqvist-Goldstein et al . , 2001; Sochacki et al . , 2017 ) influence this organization ? And finally , how do endocytic actin networks adapt to changing loads due to the stochastic environment and changes in membrane tension ? To answer these questions , we combined live-cell molecule counting methods in genome-edited diploid human cells and cryo-electron tomography of intact cells with multiscale modeling of plasma membrane mechanics and actin filament dynamics . Our results show that a minimal branched actin network is sufficient to create sustained internalization of an endocytic pit against physiological membrane tension . Actin filament self-organization and bending , which arise from the spatial distribution of actin-coat attachments around the curved endocytic pit , allow the actin network to adapt to changing loads . We anticipate that the mechanistic insights gained for actin in mammalian endocytosis will also apply to a variety of local membrane-bending processes carried out by branched actin throughout the cell . 
Macropinocytosis is a fundamental mechanism that allows cells to take up extracellular liquid into large vesicles . It critically depends on the formation of a ring of protrusive actin beneath the plasma membrane , which develops into the macropinocytic cup . We show that macropinocytic cups in Dictyostelium are organised around coincident intense patches of PIP3 , active Ras and active Rac . These signalling patches are invariably associated with a ring of active SCAR/WAVE at their periphery , as are all examined structures based on PIP3 patches , including phagocytic cups and basal waves . Patch formation does not depend on the enclosing F-actin ring , and patches become enlarged when the RasGAP NF1 is mutated , showing that Ras plays an instructive role . New macropinocytic cups predominantly form by splitting from existing ones . We propose that cup-shaped plasma membrane structures form from self-organizing patches of active Ras/PIP3 , which recruit a ring of actin nucleators to their periphery .  Macropinocytosis provides cells with an efficient way of taking up large volumes of medium into intracellular vesicles , from which they can extract nutrients , antigens and other useful molecules ( Bloomfield and Kay , 2016; Egami et al . , 2014; Maniak , 2001; Swanson , 2008; Swanson and Watts , 1995 ) . It is an ancient process , used for feeding by amoebae ( Hacker et al . , 1997; Thilo and Vogel , 1980 ) , but one that is important for a wide spectrum of human biology , including uptake of drugs , and large-scale sampling of extracellular medium for antigens by immune cells . It has also been hijacked by pathogens as a major route of entry ( Mercer and Helenius , 2012 ) . Recent data suggest that macropinocytosis is a principal and widely used method for sustaining the excessive metabolic demands of cancer cells ( Commisso et al . , 2013; Kamphorst et al . , 2015 ) and may be implicated in the spread of neurodegenerative disease within the brain ( Münch et al . , 2011 ) . Considering its biological importance , macropinocytosis is not well understood . Macropinosomes form from cup-shaped extensions of the plasma membrane , often known as circular ruffles , which are extended by actin polymerisation . The leading rims of these ruffles must be driven outwards to enclose liquid – often for a very significant fraction of the cell’s diameter – but the base must be held static . The resulting cups can be several microns in diameter , and eventually close by constriction of their rim , with membrane fusion producing an endocytic vesicle . Here we address a critical and mysterious question about this process - how do cells organize actin to polymerize in a ring and so form the walls of the cup ? In the closely related process of phagocytosis , in which solid particles are taken up , it is proposed that cup formation is guided by engaging receptors with the particle to be engulfed in a zippering process ( Freeman and Grinstein , 2014; Griffin et al . , 1975 ) . However , macropinosomes take up fluid and so cannot use a particle as a template in this way . Nor is there any known equivalent in macropinocytosis of the coat that organises clathrin-mediated endocytosis . Thus it appears that macropinocytic cups must form by a self-organizing process within the actin polymerization machinery and its regulators . The dynamic actin that polymerises around macropinocytic cups is probably initiated by a number of nucleators , including both formins , such as ForG , which is needed for the basal part of phagocytic cups in Dictyostelium ( Junemann et al . , 2016 ) , and the Arp2/3 complex ( Insall et al . , 2001 ) , which produces dendritic structures ( Pollard and Borisy , 2003 ) , like the actin that drives pseudopods . Assembly of Arp2/3 based actin is controlled by the WASP family of nucleation promoting factors; the two family members that act at the plasma membrane are WASP and SCAR/WAVE ( hereafter called SCAR ) . WASP is important for actin polymerisation during clathrin-mediated endocytosis ( Taylor et al . , 2011 ) , and SCAR , acting in a five-membered complex ( Eden et al . , 2002 ) , for the formation of pseudopods ( Seastone et al . , 2001; Veltman et al . , 2012 ) . It is not known which is responsible for macropinocytosis . Ras and phosphoinositide signalling help organize the cytoskeleton for macropinocytosis and phagocytosis ( Bar-Sagi and Feramisco , 1986; Bloomfield and Kay , 2016; Bohdanowicz and Grinstein , 2013; Rodriguez-Viciana et al . , 1997; Swanson , 2014 ) . There is evidence that Ras activity stimulates macropinocytosis in both mammalian and Dictyostelium cells , and macropinocytic cups are associated with an intense domain , or ‘patch’ , of PIP3 ( Araki et al . , 2007; Parent et al . , 1998; Yoshida et al . , 2009 ) , which is essential for their function ( Araki et al . , 1996; Buczynski et al . , 1997; Hoeller et al . , 2013; Zhou et al . , 1998 ) . In macrophages , which often evolve macropinocytic cups from linear ruffles , it has been suggested that ruffle circularisation creates a diffusion barrier in the membrane leading to intensified PIP3 signalling and a domain of PIP3 in the centre of the circular ruffle ( Welliver et al . , 2011 ) . This domain then drives the further progression of the macropinocytic cup . In axenic strains of Dictyostelium , which grow efficiently in liquid medium , macropinocytosis is massively up-regulated due to mutation of the RasGAP neurofibromatosis-1 ( NF1 ) ( Bloomfield et al . , 2015; Hacker et al . , 1997; Kayman and Clarke , 1983 ) . These strains are thus an excellent starting point for research into the organising principles behind macropinocytic cup formation . Here we examine macropinocytosis with unprecedented 3D detail using lattice light sheet microscopy , and map the spatial and temporal control of actin regulators such as SCAR and WASP with respect to signalling molecules including PIP3 and active Ras . This leads us to propose a new and general hypothesis for the formation of cups from the plasma membrane . 
The cohesin ring holds newly replicated sister chromatids together until their separation at anaphase . Initiation of sister chromatid cohesion depends on a separate complex , Scc2NIPBL/Scc4Mau2 ( Scc2/4 ) , which loads cohesin onto DNA and determines its localization across the genome . Proper cohesin loading is essential for cell division , and partial defects cause chromosome missegregation and aberrant transcriptional regulation , leading to severe developmental defects in multicellular organisms . We present here a crystal structure showing the interaction between Scc2 and Scc4 . Scc4 is a TPR array that envelops an extended Scc2 peptide . Using budding yeast , we demonstrate that a conserved patch on the surface of Scc4 is required to recruit Scc2/4 to centromeres and to build pericentromeric cohesion . These findings reveal the role of Scc4 in determining the localization of cohesin loading and establish a molecular basis for Scc2/4 recruitment to centromeres .  Tight association between sister chromatids is crucial for successful chromosome segregation in eukaryotic cell division . Cohesin , a ring-shaped protein complex that wraps around sister chromatids ( Gruber et al . , 2003; Haering et al . , 2008 ) is the molecular agent of sister chromatid cohesion , which persists from the time of DNA replication until anaphase . A distinct protein complex containing Scc2NIPBL and Scc4Mau2 ( Scc2/4 ) initiates linkage of cohesin with DNA ( Ciosk et al . , 2000 ) , and an in vitro reconstitution of cohesin loading by Scc2/4 suggests that the product of this reaction is a topological protein–DNA linkage ( Murayama and Uhlmann , 2013 ) . In metazoans , cohesin deposition by Scc2/4 is required for normal development ( Dorsett et al . , 2005; Kawauchi et al . , 2009 ) , and mutations in NIPBL , the human homolog of Scc2 , are dominant and causally linked to a severe developmental disorder , Cornelia de Lange Syndrome ( CDLS ) ( Krantz et al . , 2004 ) . In addition to initiating a connection between cohesin and chromatin , Scc2/4 determines the timing and location of cohesin loading ( Ciosk et al . , 2000; Kogut et al . , 2009 ) . Cohesin enrichment at mitotic centromeres and pericentromeres results in tension across sister chromatids when paired kinetochores attach to opposite spindle microtubules ( Tanaka , 2000 ) . Mitotic spindle checkpoint signaling senses the tension between sister centromeres to ensure correct kinetochore–microtubule attachments ( Stern and Murray , 2001 ) . Defective centromeric cohesion therefore leads to elevated rates of chromosome missegregation ( Eckert et al . , 2007; Fernius and Marston , 2009 ) . Centromeric cohesion depends on recruitment of Scc2/4 to centromeres in late G1/early S phase ( Hu et al . , 2011; Fernius et al . , 2013 ) . A group of conserved kinetochore proteins—the Ctf19 complex in yeast ( homologous to the human CCAN ) —participates in this recruitment pathway , along with the S phase kinase complex , DDK ( Fernius and Marston , 2009; Hu et al . , 2011; Natsume et al . , 2013 ) . Deletion of any of several Ctf19 complex members leads to impaired centromeric cohesion and chromosome missegregation ( Eckert et al . , 2007; Fernius and Marston , 2009; Ng et al . , 2009; Hu et al . , 2011 ) , but whether individual components make direct contact with Scc2/4 is not yet known . The cohesin loading activity of Scc2/4 in vitro requires only Scc2 ( Murayama and Uhlmann , 2013 ) . Scc4 is essential in yeast , however , and in humans , de novo Mau2Scc4 missense and nonsense mutations are significantly underrepresented in exome sequences , indicating that disruption of Mau2Scc4 function is probably dominant and lethal ( Table 1 ) . Thus , Scc2 activity in vivo must depend on Scc4 in ways not recapitulated by the in vitro loading reaction . We report here the structure of yeast Scc4 in complex with an N-terminal fragment of Scc2 and demonstrate that Scc4 determines cohesin localization through a conserved patch on its surface . These findings show that Scc4 targets cohesin loading to a specific genomic locus and that this function is separable from its essential role in establishing sister chromatid cohesion across the genome . 10 . 7554/eLife . 06057 . 019Table 1 . De novo mutation profiles for human NIPBL and Mau2DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 06057 . 019ObservedExpectedNIPBL Synonymous5858 . 4 Missense88160 . 9 Loss of function018 . 4Mau2 Synonymous2526 . 6 Missense1352 . 7 Loss of function03 . 8 
For hibernators , being born late in the active season may have important effects on growth and fattening , hence on winter survival and reproduction . This study investigated differences in growth , fattening , energetic responses , winter survival and fecundity between early-born ( ‘EB’ ) and late-born ( ‘LB’ ) juvenile garden dormice ( Eliomys quercinus ) . LB juveniles grew and gained mass twice as fast as EB individuals . Torpor use was low during intensive growth , that are , first weeks of body mass gain , but increased during pre-hibernation fattening . LB juveniles showed higher torpor use , reached similar body sizes but lower fat content than EB individuals before hibernation . Finally , LB individuals showed similar patterns of hibernation , but higher proportion of breeders during the following year than EB dormice . These results suggest that torpor is incompatible with growth but promotes fattening and consolidates pre-hibernation fat depots . In garden dormice , being born late in the reproductive season is associated with a fast life history .  Because of limited food resources in the environment , organisms have to optimize the allocation of energy to the competing processes of self-maintenance , growth and reproduction to maximize their fitness . In seasonal environments , animals often have to face periods of food shortage and thus trade-offs of energy allocation . In response to these challenges animals may employ diverse strategies to cope with unfavourable conditions . These include migration , energy storage or the use of hypometabolic states . In particular , many small mammals and birds have developed specific mechanisms of energy and water conservation , achieved by active and controlled reductions of metabolic rate ( ‘MR’ ) and hence body temperature ( ‘Tb’ ) that is , daily torpor or hibernation ( Geiser and Ruf , 1995; Heldmaier and Ruf , 1992; Ruf and Geiser , 2015 ) . Since most hibernators do not eat during their hibernation season but use body fat reserves as primary fuel , gaining sufficient body fat depots prior to hibernation is an important process for overwintering survival ( Dark , 2005 ) . This is especially true for juveniles due to their low body size , hence low ability to store fat ( Bertolino et al . , 2001; Dark , 2005 ) . As a consequence , pre-hibernation body mass – a proxy for fat mass ( ‘FM’ ) – is a good predictor of winter survival and thus fitness ( Armitage et al . , 1976; Dark , 2005; Lenihan et al . , 1996; Murie and Boag , 1984 ) . Besides fat deposition , body size , and consequently growth , is a crucial determinant of fitness and a major component of life history because it can negatively affect future survival and reproduction , namely the ‘silver-spoon effect’ ( Arendt , 1997; Dmitriew , 2011; Metcalfe and Monaghan , 2001 , 2003 ) . Indeed , suboptimal , delayed or even accelerated growth can impair the somatic status and/or the reproductive output , and thus the fitness of individuals ( Metcalfe and Monaghan , 2003 ) . Therefore , investing enough resources in the energy-demanding processes of postnatal growth and pre-hibernation fattening is of high relevance for juvenile hibernators . This can , however , represent a challenge , notably when the time before hibernation onset is shortened , as for juveniles born late in the reproductive season . Further , food availability during key periods of development might also be reduced ( Metcalfe and Monaghan , 2001 ) , as it can happen late in the reproductive season . Therefore , being a hibernator born late in the summer might trigger coordinated energy-sparing strategies for FM gain at the expense of body growth and subsequent reproductive success . One of the common responses shown by late-born ( ‘LB’ ) individuals is to grow and gain mass at higher-than-normal rates . This is indeed the case in LB garden dormice ( Eliomys quercinus ) that grow almost twice as fast as early-born ( ‘EB’ ) individuals , reaching lower fat content prior to hibernation ( Stumpfel et al . , 2017 ) . One possible strategy to lower energy requirements and to minimize the impact of energetic challenges is the use of short torpor bouts during certain parts of the day , namely daily torpor ( Ruf et al . , 1991 ) . In particular , torpor use is thought to sustain and promote growth , body mass gain and pre-hibernation fattening and may ensure survival in young individuals ( Geiser and Brigham , 2012; Geiser et al . , 2006; Giroud et al . , 2012; Giroud et al . , 2014 ) . Previous studies of our group have demonstrated that LB juvenile garden dormice use daily torpor to counteract intermittent periods of fasting , showing similar trajectories of body mass gain as ad libitum-fed individuals prior to hibernation ( Giroud et al . , 2012; Giroud et al . , 2014 ) . However , we presently know very little about the use of daily torpor in juvenile hibernators ( Geiser , 2008; Geiser and Brigham , 2012 ) . Further , to our knowledge no study so far has specifically investigated the effect of torpor and alternative energy-saving strategies on processes of growth and pre-hibernation fattening in hibernators according to their time of birth within the season . The garden dormouse , henceforth 'dormouse' , is a small nocturnal and omnivorous rodent endemic to Europe ( Bertolino et al . , 2008; Vaterlaus-Schlegel , 1997; Vogel , 1997 ) . The hibernation season , during which they solely rely on body energy reserves accumulated prior to hibernation , can last up to 7 months ( Bertolino et al . , 2001 ) . Because a second litter late in the season is possible , both in captivity and in the field ( Giroud et al . , 2012; Giroud et al . , 2014; Moreno , 1988 ) , dormice provide an excellent model to determine differences between juveniles from EB and LB litters . In the present study , we therefore investigated the effects of the time of birth ( EB vs . LB ) and food availability ( ad-libitum ‘AL’ vs . intermittently fasted ‘IF’ ) on ( i ) the rate of growth and pre-hibernation fattening , ( ii ) the use of energy saving strategies such as daily torpor , ( iii ) the body size and body fat content prior to hibernation , ( iv ) the subsequent overwinter hibernating patterns and mass losses , and ( v ) the fecundity at the following spring of female juvenile dormice . Specifically , we hypothesized that LB juvenile dormice ( i ) grow and fatten at higher rates , due to ( ii ) a higher use of torpor , and ( iii ) reach similar pre-hibernation levels of body size but a lower body fat content , leading to ( iv ) differences in hibernating patterns and mass losses overwinter , compared to EB individuals . Further , we expected IF juveniles to employ more often and longer torpor bouts than AL fed individuals to reach similar levels of body fat content prior to hibernation . Finally , because of higher growth rates , we expected ( v ) LB juveniles to show a lower level of fecundity than EB individuals , at the subsequent reproductive season . 
ADAR proteins alter gene expression both by catalyzing adenosine ( A ) to inosine ( I ) RNA editing and binding to regulatory elements in target RNAs . Loss of ADARs affects neuronal function in all animals studied to date . Caenorhabditis elegans lacking ADARs exhibit reduced chemotaxis , but the targets responsible for this phenotype remain unknown . To identify critical neural ADAR targets in C . elegans , we performed an unbiased assessment of the effects of ADR-2 , the only A-to-I editing enzyme in C . elegans , on the neural transcriptome . Development and implementation of publicly available software , SAILOR , identified 7361 A-to-I editing events across the neural transcriptome . Intersecting the neural editome with adr-2 associated gene expression changes , revealed an edited mRNA , clec-41 , whose neural expression is dependent on deamination . Restoring clec-41 expression in adr-2 deficient neural cells rescued the chemotaxis defect , providing the first evidence that neuronal phenotypes of ADAR mutants can be caused by altered gene expression .  The complexity of post-transcriptional gene regulation has exponentially expanded in recent years as the repertoire of RNA binding proteins ( RBPs ) in an organism as well as their binding sites have been uncovered ( Castello et al . , 2012; Wessels et al . , 2016; Beckmann et al . , 2015; Brannan et al . , 2016 ) . However , connecting this information to how different RBPs alter mRNA splicing , stability , as well as translation is only beginning to be elucidated , and likely varies in different cell- and tissue-types as well as during development . Adenosine deaminases that act on RNA ( ADAR ) are RBPs best known for converting adenosine ( A ) to inosine ( I ) within double-stranded RNA ( dsRNA ) , including double-stranded regions of transcripts and small RNA precursors ( Nishikura , 2010; Goodman et al . , 2012 ) . Transcriptome-wide identification of A-to-I editing sites from a number of species has indicated that RNA editing is prevalent in animal transcriptomes both in coding and non-coding regions of the genome , but the genomic distribution of these editing sites vary in different organisms ( Savva et al . , 2016 ) . As inosine is a biological mimic of guanosine , A-to-I editing has the potential to affect gene expression by altering coding potential , splice site selection , and/or small RNA binding ( Deffit and Hundley , 2016; Nishikura , 2016; Tajaddod et al . , 2016 ) . In addition , recent studies have shown mammalian ADARs play editing-independent roles through binding to mRNAs and influencing the association of other RBPs on the same target RNA ( Anantharaman et al . , 2017; Wang et al . , 2013; Bahn et al . , 2015 ) . One of the primary biological functions of ADARs is to promote proper neuronal function ( Li and Church , 2013; Behm and Öhman , 2016 ) . The mammalian brain contains the highest level of inosine , and A-to-I editing within coding regions of specific human transcripts , such as ion channels and receptors , alters the physiological properties of the encoded proteins , a requisite for proper neuronal function ( Paul and Bass , 1998; Tariq and Jantsch , 2012; Rosenthal and Seeburg , 2012 ) . Consistent with this important role of ADARs in the mammalian nervous system , alterations in ADAR protein levels and editing activity have been observed in human neuropathological diseases , including Alzheimer’s disease , amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and many cancers , including brain tumors ( Mannion et al . , 2015; Bajad et al . , 2017; Tomaselli et al . , 2014 ) . Studies in model organisms provide additional evidence for a critical role for ADARs within the nervous system . Mice lacking ADAR2 die of epileptic seizures by postnatal day 20 due to under-editing of one adenosine within the coding region of the glutamate receptor , which results in excessive calcium influx and neuronal excitoxicity ( Higuchi et al . , 2000 ) . Loss of Drosophila melanogaster ADAR ( dADAR ) results in severe behavioral abnormalities , including extreme uncoordination , tremors , and a lack of courtship , as well as age-dependent neurodegeneration ( Palladino et al . , 2000 ) . Similar to the mouse and fly model organisms , loss of ADARs in C . elegans results in abnormal neuronal function as evidenced by defective chemotaxis to a number of volatile chemicals sensed by the AWA and AWC neurons ( Tonkin et al . , 2002 ) . Loss of C . elegans ADARs likely affects the ability of the neurons to sense these chemicals as the chemotaxis defect is less severe with increasing doses of these volatiles ( Tonkin et al . , 2002 ) . To date , the targets responsible for the chemosensory defects of C . elegans ADARs remain unknown . In the present study , we sought to understand the neurobiological effects of RNA editing in worms by dissecting the neural gene regulatory role of ADR-2 , the only A-to-I editing enzyme in C . elegans . Though multiple studies have used high-throughput sequencing to assess the editome and the role of ADR-2 , these studies have been limited to analyzing RNA isolated from whole worms ( Whipple et al . , 2015; Zhao et al . , 2015; Goldstein et al . , 2017 ) . However , a recently developed method utilized chemomechanical disruption of worms followed by fluorescent activated cell sorting ( FACS ) to obtain cells of interest from whole worms ( Spencer et al . , 2014; Kaletsky et al . , 2016 ) . By expressing a fluorescent marker in neural cells , we used this method to isolate and sequence the transcriptome of neural cells from wild-type and adr-2 deficient worms . We performed the first unbiased tissue-specific assessment of RNA editing in C . elegans . High-throughput sequencing combined with detection of A-to-I editing events using our newly developed SAILOR software revealed over 7300 editing sites in the neural editome . Additionally , a differential expression analysis identified 169 genes whose expression was changed upon loss of adr-2 . To identify potential ADR-2 targets responsible for defects in chemotaxis , our study further focused on genes known to regulate this biological process . Here , clec-41 , a gene previously found to be important for proper worm locomotion ( Simmer et al . , 2003 ) , was found to be expressed and edited within the 3’ untranslated region ( UTR ) in neural cells . In addition , clec-41 mRNA transcripts were differentially expressed in neural cells lacking adr-2 . Strikingly , transgenic expression of clec-41 in neural cells of adr-2 deficient worms was sufficient to rescue the aberrant chemotaxis of these animals . Furthermore , expression of a mutant ADR-2 protein incapable of deamination was not sufficient for proper clec-41 expression or chemotaxis , indicating deamination is required for both gene regulation and chemotaxis . In sum , this is the first study to link noncoding A-to-I editing and altered expression of a specific transcript with a neurological consequence resulting from loss of ADARs . 
Host shutoff is a common strategy used by viruses to repress cellular mRNA translation and concomitantly allow the efficient translation of viral mRNAs . Here we use RNA-sequencing and ribosome profiling to explore the mechanisms that are being utilized by the Influenza A virus ( IAV ) to induce host shutoff . We show that viral transcripts are not preferentially translated and instead the decline in cellular protein synthesis is mediated by viral takeover on the mRNA pool . Our measurements also uncover strong variability in the levels of cellular transcripts reduction , revealing that short transcripts are less affected by IAV . Interestingly , these mRNAs that are refractory to IAV infection are enriched in cell maintenance processes such as oxidative phosphorylation . Furthermore , we show that the continuous oxidative phosphorylation activity is important for viral propagation . Our results advance our understanding of IAV-induced shutoff , and suggest a mechanism that facilitates the translation of genes with important housekeeping functions .  Influenza A viruses ( IAV ) are included among the Orthomyxoviridae family of negative single-stranded , segmented RNA viruses . These viruses cause an infectious disease that constitutes an important public health problem and remains today an important cause of morbidity and mortality ( Fields , 2007 ) . Like all viruses , IAV is absolutely dependent on the host-cell protein synthesis machinery to produce its proteins . To ensure priority access to host translation machinery , many viruses utilize host shutoff mechanisms that eliminate competition from cellular transcripts ( Walsh et al . , 2012 ) . Host shutoff could be achieved by two complementary mechanisms: 1 . Direct co-opting of the translation machinery by mechanisms that force better translation of viral mRNAs compared to their host counterparts . A classic example for this strategy is employed by poliovirus . It cleaves an essential host cap- binding protein , eIF4G , therefore preventing cap-dependent translation of host mRNAs while viral RNA translation stays unperturbed through the use of an internal ribosome entry site ( Ventoso et al . , 1998 ) . 2 . Viral-induced degradation of host mRNAs . This strategy is employed by several herpesviruses that express endonucleases which cleave host mRNAs , thereby eliminating the competition with host mRNA for the translation apparatus and ensuring efficient cap-dependent translation of viral mRNAs ( Glaunsinger and Ganem , 2006 ) . IAV has long been known to significantly shutoff host gene expression . Interestingly , it is one of the few viruses for which both direct translation co-opting and host mRNA degradation were suggested to play a prominent role in host shutoff ( Yanguez and Nieto , 2011; Jagger et al . , 2012 ) . Although IAV mRNAs share the basic features with host mRNAs like a 5’ 7-methyl guanosine ( m7G ) cap and a 3’ poly-adenylate ( poly ( A ) ) tail , previous research suggested that influenza mRNAs are preferably translated due to features found in the 5’UTR of viral mRNAs ( Garfinkel and Katze , 1993; Katze et al . , 1986; Park and Katze , 1995 ) . In addition host mRNA degradation has long been acknowledged ( Beloso et al . , 1992 ) . The 5’ m7G caps on viral transcripts are acquired by “cap-snatching” ( Plotch et al . , 1981 ) , this snatching allows the priming of viral mRNA synthesis but also leads to nascent host transcripts degradation . In addition , inhibition of polyadenylation of host pre-mRNA by IAV Nonstructural protein 1 ( NS1 ) protein ( Nemeroff et al . , 1998 ) , and degradation of the host RNA polymerase II complex ( Rodriguez and Pérez-González , 2007 ) could contribute to the reduction in host transcripts in infected cells . Recently , a highly conserved IAV protein PA-X , possessing the PA endonuclease domain , was shown to selectively degrade host mRNAs ( Jagger et al . , 2012 ) , strongly suggesting that PA-X is a general influenza host shutoff endonuclease . Although the discovery of PA-X has prompted new examination of the mechanisms that drive host shutoff during IAV infection ( Khaperskyy and McCormick , 2015; Khaperskyy et al . , 2016 , 2014; Bavagnoli et al . , 2015 ) , several fundamental questions remain unanswered: ( a ) To what extent does IAV change host mRNAs expression and translation ? , ( b ) what is the relative contribution of host mRNA degradation versus direct manipulation of translation to host shutoff ? ( c ) to what extent does the virus possess mechanisms to ensure more effective translation of its own mRNAs ? Here , we took a systemic approach to explore the relative contribution of direct co-opting of the translation machinery , and reduction of host RNA levels to the reduction in host protein synthesis . To this end , we have used RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) and ribosome profiling ( deep sequencing of ribosomes-protected fragments ) to globally map the changes in host genes RNA and translation levels during IAV infection . These comprehensive and simultaneous measurements complemented with Single molecule Fluorescence in-situ Hybridization ( smFISH ) revealed that host shutoff is mainly achieved by reduction in cellular mRNAs levels , and that IAV transcripts are not preferably translated . Our systematic analysis also reveals that host transcripts are affected differently by IAV infection and that the extent of mRNAs reduction is related to their length and GC content . Interestingly , we noticed that transcripts encoding oxidative phosphorylation related proteins are less affected by IAV infection , their protein levels remain stable throughout infection and their continuous expression supports the energetic demands that are essential for virus replication . 
Gradients of signaling proteins are essential for inducing tissue morphogenesis . However , mechanisms of gradient formation remain controversial . Here we characterized the distribution of fluorescently-tagged signaling proteins , FGF and FGFR , expressed at physiological levels from the genomic knock-in alleles in Drosophila . FGF produced in the larval wing imaginal-disc moves to the air-sac-primordium ( ASP ) through FGFR-containing cytonemes that extend from the ASP to contact the wing-disc source . The number of FGF-receiving cytonemes extended by ASP cells decreases gradually with increasing distance from the source , generating a recipient-specific FGF gradient . Acting as a morphogen in the ASP , FGF activates concentration-dependent gene expression , inducing pointed-P1 at higher and cut at lower levels . The transcription-factors Pointed-P1 and Cut antagonize each other and differentially regulate formation of FGFR-containing cytonemes , creating regions with higher-to-lower numbers of FGF-receiving cytonemes . These results reveal a robust mechanism where morphogens self-generate precise tissue-specific gradient contours through feedback regulation of cytoneme-mediated dispersion .  Diverse tissue shapes and patterns are created by conserved paracrine signaling proteins such as Transforming Growth Factor β ( TGFβ ) , Hedgehog ( Hh ) , Wingless ( Wg/WNT ) , Epidermal Growth Factor ( EGF ) and Fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) . Irrespective of the diversity of the functions and forms created , a universal mode by which these signals coordinate responses in a large population of cells involves the generation of concentration gradients . For instance , morphogen gradients induce concentration-dependent gene activities that regulate tissue growth and patterning ( reviewed in ( Bier and De Robertis , 2015; Christian , 2012; Restrepo et al . , 2014; Rogers and Schier , 2011; Wolpert , 2016 ) ) . Similarly , growth factor and chemokine gradients are thought to control cell migration during vasculogenesis , neurogenesis , wound healing , and immune responses ( Cai and Montell , 2014; Majumdar et al . , 2014 ) . Despite advances in our understanding of signal transduction pathways , how signals disperse and how the dispersion mechanism is dynamically modulated to shape gradients in three-dimensional tissue structures are poorly understood . Moreover , the formation of signal gradients is unexplored in most morphogenetic contexts , so we do not know how dispersion of the signals through extracellular space can generate the required diversity in gradient shapes and contours for a multitude of tissue architectures . Several models primarily based on free/restricted/facilitated extracellular diffusion of signals were proposed previously to explain the establishment of signal gradients , but the proposed mechanisms are highly controversial ( Majumdar et al . , 2014; Müller et al . , 2013; Wolpert , 2016 ) . Recent advancements in live imaging technology facilitated the discovery of a radically different mechanism of signal dispersion , where signals move directly from producing to recipient cells through actin-based specialized filopodia or cytonemes ( Bischoff et al . , 2013; Eom and Parichy , 2017; Roy et al . , 2011b; Roy et al . , 2014; Sanders et al . , 2013; Stanganello and Scholpp , 2016 ) . Cytonemes and cytoneme-like projections are now known to be required for cell-cell communication mediated by many families of signaling proteins ( Kornberg , 2014 ) . For instance , a cytoneme-dependent mechanism was shown to be essential for generating concentration-dependent signaling responses to the Hh and Dpp morphogens ( Bischoff et al . , 2013; Chen et al . , 2017; Roy et al . , 2014 ) . However , how local cytoneme-mediated cell-to-cell communication might create long-range signal gradients to regulate tissue morphogenesis was unknown . In this study , we aimed to address these fundamental questions by characterizing gradient formation of a Drosophila FGF family protein , Branchless ( Bnl ) . In Drosophila , Bnl is the primary signal that guides the branching morphogenesis of tracheal epithelial tubes ( Sutherland et al . , 1996 ) . At the third instar larval stage , Bnl produced from a restricted group of wing imaginal disc cells induces budding and growth of a wing disc-associated tracheal branch , the air-sac primordium ( ASP ) , from the disc-associated transverse connective ( TC ) ( Figure 1A ) ( Sato and Kornberg , 2002 ) . ASP tracheoblast cells are precursors of adult air-sac , an organ that is analogous to the vertebrate lung . Traditionally , all paracrine signals such as FGF family proteins are thought to function as diffusible signals and form a gradient by passive extracellular dispersion . In accordance with the same line of thinking , one hypothesis predicts that Drosophila Bnl diffuses from its source to form an extracellular gradient and that the gradient guides directional migration of the tracheal branches such as the ASP ( Horowitz and Simons , 2008; Ochoa-Espinosa and Affolter , 2012 ) ( Figure 1A’ ) . However , whether Bnl forms a gradient and if so , how Bnl is transported and modulated in the extracellular space to form a gradient remain unexplored . Moreover , all tracheal cells express the Bnl receptor , Breathless ( Btl ) , and develop under the guidance of the same Bnl signal , but different embryonic and larval tracheal branches adopt different developmental stage-specific morphologies ( Sato and Kornberg , 2002; Sutherland et al . , 1996 ) . We do not understand whether and how the shape of a Bnl gradient can dynamically adapt to diverse tissue morphologies . To investigate these important gaps in knowledge , we chose to focus on the Drosophila larval ASP because of its unique features . In this system , the wing disc bnl-source is spatially separated from the recipient ASP epithelium ( Figure 1A” ) . Bnl signals exclusively to the ASP because the wing disc cells and myoblasts located between the disc and the ASP do not express its receptor , Btl . Moreover , the two additional Drosophila FGF family proteins , Pyramus and Thisbe , do not share receptors with Bnl ( Sato and Kornberg , 2002; Stathopoulos et al . , 2004 ) . This system where there is a clear inter-organ communication path and a single Bnl-specific receptor exclusively expressed in the ASP is ideal for an unbiased interpretation of the extracellular route of Bnl transport and gradient formation . Genome-edited Bnl:GFP and Btl:Cherry constructs generated in this study revealed Bnl distribution with high sensitivity and precision , allowing direct visualization of an endogenous signal and signaling gradient . We showed that Bnl moves target-specifically from the producing cells to the ASP through cytonemes and forms a long-range concentration gradient by dynamically adopting the recipient ASP-specific shapes and contours . We also demonstrated that Bnl functions as a morphogen and , most importantly , we uncovered a novel self-regulatory mechanism of cytoneme-mediated signaling by which the Bnl morphogen gradient forms . Thus , these findings showed an example of morphogenesis in which cytoneme-dependent signaling can provide precision and adaptability in shaping long-range positional gradients and tissue architectures in space and time . 
Coiled coils are the best-understood protein fold , as their backbone structure can uniquely be described by parametric equations . This level of understanding has allowed their manipulation in unprecedented detail . They do not seem a likely source of surprises , yet we describe here the unexpected formation of a new type of fiber by the simple insertion of two or six residues into the underlying heptad repeat of a parallel , trimeric coiled coil . These insertions strain the supercoil to the breaking point , causing the local formation of short β-strands , which move the path of the chain by 120° around the trimer axis . The result is an α/β coiled coil , which retains only one backbone hydrogen bond per repeat unit from the parent coiled coil . Our results show that a substantially novel backbone structure is possible within the allowed regions of the Ramachandran space with only minor mutations to a known fold .  α-Helical coiled coils are ubiquitous protein domains , found in a wide range of structural and functional contexts ( Lupas , 1996 ) . They were the first protein fold described in atomic detail ( Crick , 1953b ) and are also the only one whose backbone structure can be computed with parametric equations ( Crick , 1953a ) , placing them at the forefront of protein design efforts ( Huang et al . , 2014; Joh et al . , 2014; Thomson et al . , 2014; Woolfson , 2005 ) . The structure of coiled coils is understood at a level unrivaled by any other fold . They consist of at least two α-helices , wound into superhelical bundles and held together by a mostly hydrophobic core . In their most prevalent form they follow a heptad sequence repeat pattern . The seven positions in a heptad are labeled a – g , where positions a and d are oriented towards the core of the bundle and are thus mostly hydrophobic . Beyond the heptad repeat , a range of other periodicities is accessible to coiled coils , which is only restrained by the periodicity of the unperturbed α-helix ( Gruber and Lupas , 2003 ) . This restraint is responsible for the supercoiling of the bundle: As an ideal , straight α-helix has a periodicity of about 3 . 63 residues per turn , the heptad coiled coil has a left-handed twist to reduce the periodicity to 3 . 5 residues per turn with respect to the bundle axis . In hendecad coiled coils , the situation is reversed: 11 residues are accommodated in 3 helical turns , resulting in 11/3 = 3 . 67 residues per turn . As this is slightly above 3 . 63 , hendecads are slightly right-handed . With the periodicity of pentadecad coiled coils , 15/4 = 3 . 75 residues per turn , right-handedness is as pronounced as left-handedness is in heptad coiled coils . Many naturally occurring coiled coils contain transitions between segments of different periodicity ( Alvarez et al . , 2010; Hartmann et al . , 2014 ) or harbor discontinuities that retain the α-helical structure , but perturb the periodicity locally ( Parry , 2014 ) . The best understood discontinuities are insertions of 3 or 4 residues , which are close to the periodicity of 3 . 63 of α-helices ( Brown et al . , 1996; Hicks et al . , 2002; Lupas and Gruber , 2005 ) . The insertion of 3 residues is termed a stammer , the insertion of 4 residues a stutter . With 3 residues being less than one full turn of a helix , stammers lead to a local decrease in periodicity and an increase of left-handedness . Stutters have the opposite effect . Inserted into a heptad coiled coil , a stutter can locally extend one heptad to form a hendecad ( 7 + 4 = 11 -> 11/3 ) or , being delocalized over multiple heptads , lead to even higher periodicities like 18 residues over 5 turns ( 7 + 7 + 4 = 18 -> 18/5 ) . Other periodicities can be brought about by the insertion of multiple stammers or stutters ( e . g . 7 + 4 + 4 = 15 -> 15/4 ) . These relationships are illustrated in Figure 1 , which shows the effects on coiled-coil periodicity resulting from consecutive insertions of stammers ( blue lines ) and stutters ( green lines ) , and from their progressive delocalization ( red lines ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 11861 . 003Figure 1 . Transitions in periodicity caused by insertions of one to six residues into the heptad repeat . The green area marks the estimated boundaries of periodicities accessible to α-helical coiled coils . It is centered around the periodicity of unperturbed α-helices , about 3 . 63 residues per turn . Higher values than 3 . 63 lead to right-handed and lower values to left-handed supercoiling . The effects of consecutive insertions of stammers ( 3 residues ) or stutters ( 4 residues ) into a heptad pattern are shown by blue and green lines , respectively . The red lines correspond to the insertion of 1 to 6 residues into the heptad periodicity and their progressive delocalization over neighboring heptads . For example , an insertion of 4 residues is accommodated as 11 residues over 3 turns ( 11/3 ) , when delocalized over one heptad , or as 18/5 , when delocalized over two . Insertions of 1 or 5 residues have to be delocalized over two heptads , resulting in periodicities of 15/4 or 19/5 ( which could also be brought about by consecutive stutters – following the green line from 7/2 over 11/3 over 15/4 to 19/5 ) . Insertions of 3 can be accommodated as 10/3 , at the very edge of the green area , although in the known examples the α-helices are distorted due to the strong left-handed supercoiling which could be avoided by further delocalization . For insertions of 2 or 6 residues ( dashed lines ) a strong delocalization would be required to reach the green lawn of accessible periodicities . However , for all constructs in this paper , this is not observed . Via the formation of β-layers these insertions sustain the heptad periodicity as unperturbed as possible . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 11861 . 003 However , there are limits to the periodicities coiled coils can assume , imposed by the degree of supercoiling the constituent helices can tolerate . The insertion of a stammer into a heptad coiled coil , leading locally to a periodicity of 10/3 = 3 . 33 , was predicted to cause an overwinding of the helices ( Brown et al . , 1996 ) . We could verify this experimentally: the structure of a stammer showed that the local overwinding introduced sufficient strain to cause the formation of a short 310-helical segment ( Hartmann et al . , 2009 ) . We therefore assume that 3 . 33 ( 10/3 ) residues per turn mark the lower limit for periodicities . As this is about 0 . 3 residues per turn less than the periodicity of a perfectly straight helix , one might expect the upper limit at a periodicity of about 3 . 9 . In fact the vast majority of known coiled-coil structures deviating from the heptad repeat have periodicities higher than 3 . 5 and the most extreme example is found in the trimeric autotransporter YadA , which has a local periodicity of 3 . 8 ( 19/5 ) ( Alvarez et al . , 2010 ) . In contrast to stammers and stutters , accommodating insertions of 1 or 5 residues is more demanding for the bundle . According to Figure 1 they have to be delocalized over more than one heptad , as periodicities of 4 . 0 ( ( 7+1 ) /2 ) or 2 . 66 ( ( 7+1 ) /3 ) do not fall into the accessible range , and neither do 2 . 5 ( 0+5/2 ) , 4 . 0 ( ( 7+5 ) /3 ) or 3 . 0 ( ( 7+5 ) /4 ) . To retain α-helical structure , both insertions of 1 and 5 residues have to be delocalized over at least two heptads , leading to periodicities of 3 . 75 ( 15/4 ) and 3 . 8 ( 19/5 ) , respectively . Interestingly , these periodicities can also be brought about by the insertion of 2 ( 15/4 ) and 3 ( 19/5 ) consecutive stutters . Alternatively , insertions of 1 residue ( skip residues ) can be accommodated by the local formation of a π-turn in the α-helix , leaving the remaining coiled coil largely unperturbed ( Lupas , 1996 ) . Still missing for a complete picture of coiled-coil periodicities is the understanding of insertions of 2 and 6 residues , which should cause the greatest strain on α-helical geometry . We find that they indeed break the α-helices to form short β-strands , which associate into a triangular supersecondary structure we name the β-layer . β-Layers are found , also repetitively , in natural coiled coils , where they form regular fibers with alternating α- and β-structure , a protein fold that has not been described so far . 
Epsin is an evolutionarily conserved endocytic clathrin adaptor whose most critical function ( s ) in clathrin coat dynamics remain ( s ) elusive . To elucidate such function ( s ) , we generated embryonic fibroblasts from conditional epsin triple KO mice . Triple KO cells displayed a dramatic cell division defect . Additionally , a robust impairment in clathrin-mediated endocytosis was observed , with an accumulation of early and U-shaped pits . This defect correlated with a perturbation of the coupling between the clathrin coat and the actin cytoskeleton , which we confirmed in a cell-free assay of endocytosis . Our results indicate that a key evolutionary conserved function of epsin , in addition to other roles that include , as we show here , a low affinity interaction with SNAREs , is to help generate the force that leads to invagination and then fission of clathrin-coated pits .  Clathrin-mediated endocytosis involves a complex set of factors besides clathrin itself and the classical clathrin adaptors . These factors help coordinate nucleation of the clathrin coat with cargo selection , membrane invagination and fission ( Schmid , 1997; Slepnev and De Camilli , 2000; Kaksonen et al . , 2003; Merrifield et al . , 2005; Ferguson and De Camilli , 2012 ) . An important player in these processes is epsin , the collective name for a family of evolutionarily conserved clathrin-associated proteins ( Chen et al . , 1998; Wendland , 1999 , 2002; Ford et al . , 2002; Chen and De Camilli , 2005 ) , which in mammals is represented by three isoforms: epsin 1 , 2 , and 3 ( encoded by the Epn1 , Epn2 , and Epn3 genes , respectively [Ko et al . , 2010] ) . Epsin was identified as a major interactor of Eps15 ( Chen et al . , 1998 ) , another clathrin coat associated protein . It comprises a membrane binding N-terminal ENTH ( Epsin N-Terminal Homology ) domain , which is followed by ubiquitin-interacting motifs ( UIMs [Polo et al . , 2002] ) and a long sequence ( tail ) predicted to be primarily unfolded and flexible ( Wendland , 2002 ) . The core of the ENTH domain is preceded by a short sequence that is unfolded in solution but folds into an amphipathic α-helix upon binding to PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 . The hydrophobic portion of the helix partially penetrates the bilayer , thus conferring membrane curvature generation and sensing properties to the protein ( Itoh et al . , 2001; Ford et al . , 2002 ) . Epsin's disordered tail binds components of the clathrin coat via multiple short amino acid motifs: ‘clathrin boxes’ bind clathrin , DPW/F motifs bind the appendage domain of AP-2 , and NPF motifs bind the EH domains of Eps15 and intersectin ( Chen et al . , 1998; Rosenthal et al . , 1999; Drake , 2000; Shih et al . , 2002; Overstreet et al . , 2003 ) . As epsin binds ubiquitin and genetically interacts with enzymes of ubiquitin metabolism ( Cadavid et al . , 2000; Chen et al . , 2002; Polo et al . , 2002; Shih et al . , 2002; Chen et al . , 2003; Sigismund et al . , 2005 ) , it was proposed to function as a clathrin adaptor for ubiquitinated cargo . Strong evidence for such a role came from the demonstration of Notch signaling defects in epsin ( liquid facets ) mutant flies , as Notch signaling is critically dependent upon ubiquitin-dependent endocytosis of Notch ligands ( Overstreet et al . , 2003; Xie et al . , 2012 ) . However , other findings pointed to a general housekeeping role of epsin in clathrin-mediated endocytosis . Absence of the two epsins ( Ent1 and Ent2 ) in yeast is lethal , while hypomorphic Ent1 or Ent2 mutations result in defects in endocytosis and actin dynamics ( Wendland , 1999; Aguilar et al . , 2003; Skruzny et al . , 2012 ) . Impairments in clathrin and actin function were also observed in epsin null Dictyostelium mutants ( Brady et al . , 2008; 2010 ) . In both these unicellular organisms , epsin functions in close cooperation with Sla2/Hip1R , another evolutionarily conserved clathrin accessory factor ( Brady et al . , 2008; 2010; Skruzny et al . , 2012 ) . However , a link between epsin and Hip1R in metazoan cells has not been reported . Hip1 family members ( Hip1 and Hip1R in mammals ) comprise an N-terminal ANTH domain followed by unfolded regions that bracket a coiled-coil region and a C-terminal THATCH ( talin-HIP1/R/Sla2p actin-tethering C-terminal homology ) domain ( Engqvist-Goldstein et al . , 1999; Wilbur et al . , 2008; Skruzny et al . , 2012 ) . The coiled-coil region can homo-heterodimerize and also binds clathrin light chain ( Engqvist-Goldstein et al . , 2001; Metzler et al . , 2001; Legendre-Guillemin et al . , 2002; Gottfried et al . , 2010 ) . The THATCH domain is an actin-binding module ( Yang et al . , 1999; Engqvist-Goldstein et al . , 2001; Brett et al . , 2006; Wilbur et al . , 2008 ) . Accordingly , Sla2/Hip1R binds actin and is thought to function as a major link between the clathrin coat and actin . Studies in yeast have additionally shown that the ENTH domain of epsin and the ANTH domain of Sla2 interact with each other , and the two proteins function together in providing a link between the endocytic coat and the actin cytoskeleton ( Skruzny et al . , 2012 ) . In addition to roles of epsin mediated by protein–protein interactions , membrane remodeling properties resulting from the amphipathic helix at the N-terminus of its ENTH domain have been implicated in the clathrin-dependent endocytic reaction . In vitro studies showed that this helix confers , upon the ENTH domain , the property to induce bilayer curvature and even to fragment bilayer tubules into vesicles , thus pointing to a potential role of the epsin in fission ( Itoh et al . , 2001; Ford et al . , 2002; Boucrot et al . , 2012 ) . Surprisingly , in view of this evidence for an important housekeeping role of epsin in endocytosis , the germline knockout ( KO ) of the mouse Epn1 and Epn2 genes that encode the two major ubiquitously expressed mammalian epsins , epsin 1 and 2 , did not block the early embryonic development ( Chen et al . , 2009 ) . Arrest of embryonic development occurred only at E9 . 5–E10 , with a pattern suggestive of impaired Notch signaling , while no obvious defects in clathrin-mediated endocytosis were observed in fibroblasts derived from these embryos ( Chen et al . , 2009 ) . Moreover , studies of epsin 1 and 2 conditional double KO endothelial cells revealed a selective defect in the internalization of ubiquitinated VEGF receptor ( Pasula et al . , 2012 ) . However , a recent study based on RNAi-mediated knock-down ( KD ) in fibroblastic cells reported that the KD of all the three epsins produces a global impairment of clathrin-mediated endocytosis , which was attributed to a defect of the fission reaction ( Boucrot et al . , 2012 ) . The goal of the present study was to provide conclusive evidence about the function ( s ) and sites of action of epsin in endocytosis using a gene KO strategy to completely eliminate all epsins . Our results , which capitalize on triple KO ( TKO ) cells generated from conditional epsin TKO mice , show that epsin provides a link between the clathrin coat and actin and is needed for the transition of pits from a shallow to a deeply invaginated state . As in unicellular organisms , epsin acts in concert with Hip1R but with differences from yeast to mammals . An additional function of epsin is a low affinity interaction of its ENTH domain with synaptobrevin 2/VAMP2 ( Syb2 ) that may help ensure the presence of a vesicular SNARE in the budding vesicle . 
Data on asthma aetiology in Africa are scarce . We investigated the risk factors for asthma among schoolchildren ( 5–17 years ) in urban Uganda . We conducted a case-control study , among 555 cases and 1115 controls . Asthma was diagnosed by study clinicians . The main risk factors for asthma were tertiary education for fathers ( adjusted OR ( 95% CI ) ; 2 . 32 ( 1 . 71–3 . 16 ) ) and mothers ( 1 . 85 ( 1 . 38–2 . 48 ) ) ; area of residence at birth , with children born in a small town or in the city having an increased asthma risk compared to schoolchildren born in rural areas ( 2 . 16 ( 1 . 60–2 . 92 ) ) and ( 2 . 79 ( 1 . 79–4 . 35 ) ) , respectively; father’s and mother’s history of asthma; children’s own allergic conditions; atopy; and cooking on gas/electricity . In conclusion , asthma was associated with a strong rural-town-city risk gradient , higher parental socio-economic status and urbanicity . This work provides the basis for future studies to identify specific environmental/lifestyle factors responsible for increasing asthma risk among children in urban areas in LMICs .  Asthma is estimated to affect more than 235 million people globally , and is the most common non-communicable condition among children ( World Health Organisation , 2017 ) . In Africa , the prevalence of asthma appears to be increasing ( Asher et al . , 2006; Addo-Yobo et al . , 2007; van Gemert et al . , 2011; Zar et al . , 2007; Lawson et al . , 2017 ) , particularly in urban areas ( Addo-Yobo et al . , 2007; Morgan et al . , 2018 ) , but the causes of this increase are not fully understood . Moreover , asthma has various phenotypes which may have different aetiologies ( Lötvall et al . , 2011 ) . Asthma risk factors appear to vary internationally , and to differ between high-income countries ( HICs ) and low-and-middle income countries ( LMICs ) ( Douwes and Pearce , 2002 ) . There is little previously published data on asthma risk factors from Africa . The few studies reported have suggested that current residence in urban areas is associated with a higher risk of asthma than rural residence in Africa ( Botha et al . , 2019; Addo-Yobo et al . , 2001 ) and other LMICs ( Robinson et al . , 2011; Gaviola et al . , 2016 ) . The association between helminth infections and asthma has been investigated in Africa and other LMICs , but the findings have been inconsistent across studies ( Leonardi-Bee et al . , 2006; Mpairwe and Amoah , 2019 ) . Other risk factors for asthma in Africa and other LMICs , similar to those in HICs , include maternal smoking ( Ayuk et al . , 2018; Arrais et al . , 2019 ) , maternal history of asthma ( Nantanda et al . , 2013 ) , childhood atopic sensitisation ( Addo-Yobo et al . , 2001; Nyembue et al . , 2012 ) and history of allergy ( Nantanda et al . , 2013; Mehanna et al . , 2018 ) . Previous reports suggest no association between biomass fuels and asthma risk ( Thacher et al . , 2013; Oluwole et al . , 2017a ) , but increased asthma symptoms ( Oluwole et al . , 2017a; Oluwole et al . , 2017b ) . Unlike in HICs , higher parental education and socioeconomic status has been associated with asthma among children in Africa ( Addo-Yobo et al . , 2007; Nantanda et al . , 2013; Wolff et al . , 2012 ) . We undertook a case-control study among schoolchildren in an urban area in Uganda , to investigate the main risk factors for asthma and the patterns of allergic sensitisation . 
Interactions between all three pigment cell types are required to form the stripe pattern of adult zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) , but their molecular nature is poorly understood . Mutations in leopard ( leo ) , encoding Connexin 41 . 8 ( Cx41 . 8 ) , a gap junction subunit , cause a phenotypic series of spotted patterns . A new dominant allele , leotK3 , leads to a complete loss of the pattern , suggesting a dominant negative impact on another component of gap junctions . In a genetic screen , we identified this component as Cx39 . 4 ( luchs ) . Loss-of-function alleles demonstrate that luchs is required for stripe formation in zebrafish; however , the fins are almost not affected . Double mutants and chimeras , which show that leo and luchs are only required in xanthophores and melanophores , but not in iridophores , suggest that both connexins form heteromeric gap junctions . The phenotypes indicate that these promote homotypic interactions between melanophores and xanthophores , respectively , and those cells instruct the patterning of the iridophores .  Adult zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) display a characteristic pattern of horizontal dark and light stripes on their bodies as well as on their anal fins and tailfins ( Figure 1A ) . Three types of pigment cells ( chromatophores ) are required to create this pattern . In the dark stripes of the trunk , a net of loose or blue iridophores and pale , stellate xanthophores cover the melanophores , the light stripes are composed of dense silvery iridophores covered by compact orange xanthophores ( Hirata et al . , 2003 , 2005; Frohnhofer et al . , 2013; Mahalwar et al . , 2014; Singh et al . , 2014 ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 05125 . 003Figure 1 . The leo mutant phenotype . Wild-type zebrafish ( A ) show a pattern of dark and light stripes on the body and on anal- and tail-fins . At higher magnification ( A′ ) , dark melanophores in the stripe regions and orange xanthophores in the light stripe regions are discernible . In mutants homozygous for leot1 ( B ) and heterozygous for leotK3 ( C ) , the stripes are dissolved into spots . Clusters of melanophores are still visible ( B′ and C′ ) . Fish homozygous for leotK3 ( D ) or trans-heterozygous for leotK3 over leot1 ( E ) show an identical phenotype of a completely dissolved pattern . Individual melanophores that hardly cluster together are still present , mostly associated with blue iridophores ( D′ and E′ ) . In ( F ) a cartoon of Connexin 41 . 8 is depicted showing the positions of the leo mutations . Gap junctions are composed of two hemi-channels in adjacent cells . Each hemi-channel is made of six connexin subunits , they can be identical ( homomeric ) or different ( heteromeric ) . In ( G ) a heteromeric/heterotypic gap junction is schematically shown . An alignment of the amino acid sequence from zebrafish Cx41 . 8 with its human orthologue , GJA5 , is shown in ( H ) . The transmembrane regions are shaded in grey . Newly identified point mutations in Connexin 41 . 8 are highlighted in red: leotNR16: Y66S; leotNZ: V79M; leot3OJ022: V85M; leotK3: I152F . Already known alleles are highlighted in blue: leotw28: I31F; leot1: R68X; leotq270: I202F . Polymorphisms found in sequences from wild-type fish are highlighted in green: 106 R/K , 136 G/R; 149 V/I . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 05125 . 003 The adult pigmentation pattern is formed during metamorphosis , a period between approximately 3 and 6 weeks of development . At the onset of metamorphosis , iridophores appear in the skin at the region of the horizontal myoseptum that provides a morphological pre-pattern ( Frohnhofer et al . , 2013 ) . They proliferate and spread as densely connected cells to form the first light stripe . While spreading further ventrally and dorsally , into the regions where the first two dark stripes will form , they change their appearance and become more loose , then they aggregate again at a distance to form the next light stripes ( Singh et al . , 2013 ) . Larval xanthophores , covering the flank of the fish , start to proliferate and re-organize into densely packed compact cells above the dense iridophores of the light stripe and into more loosely organized , stellate cells in the dark stripe regions ( Mahalwar et al . , 2014 ) . Melanoblasts migrate along spinal nerves into the skin in the presumptive stripe regions where they finally differentiate and expand to fill the space ( Budi et al . , 2011; Dooley et al . , 2013; McMenamin et al . , 2014; Singh et al . , 2014 ) . In the fins , stripe formation does not require iridophores , suggesting that the patterning mechanisms in the body and fins are different . A number of mutants are known in which the pattern is not formed normally . In one class of them , one type of pigment cell is absent; in mutants for nacre/mitfA melanophores are missing ( Lister et al . , 1999 ) , mutations in pfeffer/csf1rA , lead to the lack of xanthophores ( Odenthal et al . , 1996; Parichy et al . , 2000b ) , and in shady/ltk , rose/ednrb1b , and transparent/mpv17 mutants iridophores are absent or strongly reduced ( Parichy et al . , 2000a; Lopes et al . , 2008; Krauss et al . , 2013 ) . In all these cases , the remaining two types of chromatophores form an irregular residual striped pattern . These genes are autonomously required in the respective cell types indicating that interactions among all three chromatophore types are necessary to generate the striped pattern on the trunk of the fish ( Maderspacher and Nusslein-Volhard , 2003; Parichy and Turner , 2003; Frohnhofer et al . , 2013; Krauss et al . , 2014 ) . Based on the analysis of these mutants and on ablation experiments , several attractive and repulsive signals acting over long or short ranges between the chromatophores have been postulated ( Maderspacher and Nusslein-Volhard , 2003; Yamaguchi et al . , 2007; Nakamasu et al . , 2009; Frohnhofer et al . , 2013; Patterson and Parichy , 2013; Krauss et al . , 2014 ) . In another class of mutants , an abnormal pattern is formed with all three chromatophore types present ( Haffter et al . , 1996 ) ; in these animals , the communication between the cells might be affected . The genes identified in this group encode integral membrane proteins , for example , obelix/Kir7 . 1 , a rectifying potassium channel ( Iwashita et al . , 2006 ) , seurat/Igsf11 , a cell-adhesion molecule of the immunoglobulin superfamily ( Eom et al . , 2012 ) , or dali/Tetraspanin 3c , a transmembrane-scaffolding protein ( Inoue et al . , 2012 ) . The best-known example for this class of mutants is leopard ( leo ) , where the stripes are wavy or broken up into a series of dark spots ( Figure 1B ) . The original mutant has been regarded as a separate Danio species ( Kirschbaum , 1975; Kirschbaum , 1977; Frankel , 1979 ) . Subsequently several dominant alleles were identified in Danio rerio ( Haffter et al . , 1996 ) , and it has been shown that the leo phenotype is caused by a mutation in connexin 41 . 8 ( Watanabe et al . , 2006 ) , which codes for a subunit of gap junctions ( gap junction protein α5 , GJA5 ) . Gap junctions are intercellular channels that allow the passage of small molecules and ions between neighbouring cells , and thus are responsible for their chemical and electrical coupling ( Kar et al . , 2012 ) . They are formed by the juxtaposition of two hemi-channels ( connexons ) , composed of six connexin subunits , in adjacent cells ( Unwin and Zampighi , 1980 ) . Connexins are integral membrane proteins with four transmembrane domains , two extracellular loops , one intracellular loop , and intracellular N- and C-termini ( Milks et al . , 1988 ) ( Figure 1F , G ) . Hemi-channels can be composed of different subunits; the resulting gap junctions are homotypic , if identical connexons from neighbouring cells pair , or heterotypic , if different hemi-channels come together . In addition to the subunit composition , gap junction conductivity is regulated by a number of different factors , for example , by the intracellular levels of Ca2+ , by polyamines , by the membrane potential , or by phosphorylation ( Thévenin et al . , 2013 ) . It has been reported that the function of the leo gene is required in two of the chromatophore types , the melanophores and the xanthophores , for homotypic and heterotypic cellular interactions ( Maderspacher and Nusslein-Volhard , 2003 ) . Wild-type and mutant forms of Cx41 . 8 artificially expressed in melanophores can lead to different variations of the stripe pattern ( Watanabe and Kondo , 2012 ) . This could indicate that gap junctions are responsible for some of the short range signals postulated to occur within and between these two chromatophore types ( Parichy and Turner , 2003; Inaba et al . , 2012; Frohnhofer et al . , 2013 ) . Three alleles of leo have been described so far . The original allele , leot1 , is recessive; it has a premature stop codon at position 68 of the coding sequence and is most likely a functional null-allele . Two dominant alleles , leotq270 and leotw28 , carry missense mutations; they lead to a stronger phenotype ( Haffter et al . , 1996; Watanabe et al . , 2006 ) . The dominance of these alleles led to the suggestion that heterotypic as well as homotypic connexons containing Cx41 . 8 could be involved in pigment patterning , postulating the existence of other connexin partner ( s ) in the potential heterotypic channels ( Watanabe et al . , 2006 ) . In this study , we identified several additional alleles of leo . All of them are dominant , and the strongest of them , leotK3 , leads to a complete loss of the pigmentation pattern in homozygous carriers; the number of melanophores is reduced , and they appear as small groups or individual cells in the skin , embedded in an expanded light region of dense iridophores covered by xanthophores . In a genetic screen , we found two dominant alleles of a gene we named luchs ( luc ) as enhancers of the leo loss-of-function phenotype . We show that the luc gene codes for another connexin , Cx39 . 4 . A loss-of-function allele for luc displays a phenotype similar to leot1; however , the fins are not affected . Further we show that both genes , leo and luc , are required in the trunk in xanthophores and in melanophores , but not in iridophores . Our results suggest that Cx41 . 8 and Cx39 . 4 form heteromeric gap junction channels in the plasma membranes of melanophores and xanthophores . In the complete absence of the channels , iridophores take over and almost fully fill the space normally occupied by alternating light and dark stripes , whereas melanophores are suppressed . This suggests that the heteromeric gap junctions function in the communication between xanthophores and melanophores and potentially in the transduction of signals to the dense iridophores to induce the transition into the loose shape required for dark stripe formation . 
The olfactory sense detects a plethora of behaviorally relevant odor molecules; gene families involved in olfaction exhibit high diversity in different animal phyla . Insects detect volatile molecules using olfactory ( OR ) or ionotropic receptors ( IR ) and in some cases gustatory receptors ( GRs ) . While IRs are expressed in olfactory organs across Protostomia , ORs have been hypothesized to be an adaptation to a terrestrial insect lifestyle . We investigated the olfactory system of the primary wingless bristletail Lepismachilis y-signata ( Archaeognatha ) , the firebrat Thermobia domestica ( Zygentoma ) and the neopteran leaf insect Phyllium siccifolium ( Phasmatodea ) . ORs and the olfactory coreceptor ( Orco ) are with very high probability lacking in Lepismachilis; in Thermobia we have identified three Orco candidates , and in Phyllium a fully developed OR/Orco-based system . We suggest that ORs did not arise as an adaptation to a terrestrial lifestyle , but evolved later in insect evolution , with Orco being present before the appearance of ORs .  All living organisms , including bacteria , protozoans , fungi , plants , and animals , detect chemicals in their environment . The sensitivity and chemical range of animal olfactory systems is remarkable , enabling animals to detect and discriminate between thousands of different odor molecules . Although there is a striking evolutionary convergence towards a conserved organization of signaling pathways in vertebrate and invertebrate olfactory systems ( Hildebrand and Shepherd , 1997 ) , the involved receptor gene families evolved independently . The molecular identity of olfactory receptors was first unraveled in vertebrates ( Buck and Axel , 1991 ) . In mammals , as many as 1000 heterotrimeric GTP-binding protein ( or G protein ) -coupled receptors are considered to be employed in olfactory discrimination ( Buck and Axel , 1991 ) . A similar number of chemoreceptors , with about 1300 receptor genes and 400 pseudogenes , have been hypothesized for Caenorhabditis elegans ( Robertson and Thomas , 2006 ) . All data on insect olfactory receptors are based on studies investigating the neopteran insects ( overview of insect order relationship is given in Figure 1 ) . The identity of receptors involved in olfaction in the evolutionarily more ancient apterygote insects ( Archaeognatha , Zygentoma ) and paleopteran insects ( Odonata and Ephemeroptera ) is thus completely unknown . In neopteran insects ( Polyneoptera , Paraneoptera , and Holometabola ) most volatile stimuli are recognized by members of the olfactory receptor family ( ORs ) . ORs are multitransmembrane domain proteins unrelated to nematode or vertebrate olfactory receptors ( Mombaerts , 1999; Robertson , 2001; Hill et al . , 2002 ) , displaying a distinct membrane topology ( Benton et al . , 2006; Lundin et al . , 2007 ) . The number of functional OR genes varies from 10 in the human body louse Pediculus humanus humanus ( Kirkness et al . , 2010 ) to about 60 in Drosophila melanogaster ( Clyne et al . , 1999; Gao and Chess , 1999; Vosshall et al . , 1999 ) and up to 350 OR genes in ants ( Zhou et al . , 2012 ) . ORs have been suggested to be distantly related to the gustatory receptors of arthropods , with some proteins containing a signature motif in the carboxyl terminus ( Scott et al . , 2001 ) . 10 . 7554/eLife . 02115 . 003Figure 1 . Hexapodan phylogeny . Phylogeny was adapted from Trautwein et al . ( 2012 ) . Timescale was adjusted for higher level taxa based on Rota-Stabelli et al . ( 2013 ) , for Holometabola according to Wiegmann et al . ( 2009 ) and the remaining groups based on their fossil record ( http://insects . about . com/od/evolution/a/Timeline-of-Fossil-Insects-by-Order . htm ) , in order to correlate important events in plant and insect evolution with the emergence of insect olfactory receptors . IRs and GRs are known to be much older than insects ( Peñalva-Arana et al . , 2009; Croset et al . , 2010 ) , however , ORs and Orco have evolved during the evolution of insects and cannot be found outside the insect clade ( Peñalva-Arana et al . , 2009 ) . Insects with a described OR/Orco-based olfactory system were highlighted in blue , whereas species were Orco was described in this study were colored in red . All orders investigated in this study are labeled by an asterisk . Our data suggests the evolution of the coreceptor Orco after the bristletails split from its last common ancestor with the remaining insects . However , an olfactory system that relies both on ORs and Orco seems to have evolved after the emergence of wings . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 02115 . 003 Insect olfactory receptors function as heteromultimers composed of at least one ligand-specific OR and the coreceptor Orco ( Vosshall et al . , 1999; Elmore et al . , 2003; Krieger et al . , 2003; Larsson et al . , 2004; Sato et al . , 2008; Wicher et al . , 2008 ) . Interestingly , while Orco ( Vosshall and Hansson , 2011 ) is highly conserved among insects , the sequences of other olfactory receptor genes exhibit very little sequence similarity even within the same insect order ( Krieger et al . , 2003 ) , complicating their identification . So far , Orco homologues have been identified in Lepidoptera , Diptera , Coleoptera , Hymenoptera , Hemiptera ( Krieger et al . , 2003; Pitts et al . , 2004; Smadja et al . , 2009 ) , and Orthoptera ( Yang et al . , 2012 ) . Neither Orco nor ORs are present in the genome of the crustacean Daphnia pulex , indicating that ORs are insect specific . However , GRs were found in Crustacea , just as in insects ( Peñalva-Arana et al . , 2009 ) . A second receptor family , the variant ionotropic glutamate receptors ( IRs ) , is also involved in insect chemosensation ( Benton et al . , 2009 ) . IRs act in combinations of up to three subunits; individual odor-specific receptors and one or two of the broadly expressed coreceptors IR25a , IR8a , and IR76b ( Abuin et al . , 2011 ) . IRs are present in olfactory tissues across the Protostomia ( Croset et al . , 2010 ) , for example two conserved members of this group were described in the Daphnia genome ( Croset et al . , 2010 ) and the coreceptor IR25a homologue is expressed in many , if not all mature OSNs of the American lobster Homarus americanus ( Hollins et al . , 2003 ) and the spiny lobster Panulirus argus ( Tadesse et al . , 2011 ) . Since crustaceans are the closest relatives of insects ( Friedrich and Tautz , 1995; Boore et al . , 1998; Regier et al . , 2010 ) , IRs are most likely the ancient type of insect olfactory receptor . But when and why did insect ORs evolve ? Hexapods derived from an aquatic crustacean ancestor , probably in the Early Ordovician , approximately 483 mya ( Rota-Stabelli et al . , 2013 ) . The transition from sea to land meant that molecules needed to be detected in gas phase instead of aquatic solution . Therefore , the olfactory system of a hexapod ancestor had to adapt to the terrestrial conditions and detection of volatile , air-borne chemicals . One proposed hypothesis has been that Orco and ORs of the insect type are an adaptation to this terrestrial lifestyle ( Robertson et al . , 2003; Krång et al . , 2012 ) . To reconstruct an evolutionary scenario for insect ORs , we investigated species belonging to different ancient insect orders , including Archaeognatha ( jumping bristletails ) and Zygentoma ( silverfishes and firebrats ) , and a neopteran insect belonging to the Phasmatodea ( leaf and stick insects ) as so far not analyzed control group using morphological , electrophysiological and molecular techniques . 
The global malaria burden has decreased over the last decade and many nations are attempting elimination . Asymptomatic malaria infections are not normally diagnosed or treated , posing a major hurdle for elimination efforts . One solution to this problem is mass drug administration ( MDA ) , with success depending on adequate population participation . Here , we present a detailed spatial and temporal analysis of malaria episodes and asymptomatic infections in four villages undergoing MDA in Myanmar . In this study , individuals from neighborhoods with low MDA adherence had 2 . 85 times the odds of having a malaria episode post-MDA in comparison to those from high adherence neighborhoods , regardless of individual participation , suggesting a herd effect . High mosquito biting rates , living in a house with someone else with malaria , or having an asymptomatic malaria infection were also predictors of clinical episodes . Spatial clustering of non-adherence to MDA , even in villages with high overall participation , may frustrate elimination efforts .  Mass drug administration ( MDA ) is the provision of medications to entire target populations and the approach has been used for many infectious diseases , including lymphatic filariasis , soil-transmitted helminths , onchocerciasis , schistosomiasis , and trachoma ( Keenan et al . , 2013 ) . MDA has historically been used for P . falciparum malaria ( Poirot et al . , 2013 ) and has recently been trialed in several locations in Africa ( Gitaka et al . , 2017; Mwesigwa et al . , 2018; Shekalaghe et al . , 2011 ) and Asia ( Manning et al . , 2018; Tripura et al . , 2018; Nguyen et al . , 2018; Pongvongsa et al . , 2018; Landier et al . , 2017a ) . It is being considered by several nations as a tool ( to be used in unison with other interventions ) for elimination ( World Health Organization , 2017; Zuber and Takala-Harrison , 2018 ) , and has already been implemented as an operational strategy in at least one modern setting ( Parker et al . , 2017; Landier et al . , 2018a ) . Given that drug pressure ( through provision of antimalarial drugs ) provides a survival advantage for resistant parasites , there has been some hesitance in using MDA for malaria . One historical malaria eradication campaign relied on the inclusion of sub-therapeutic levels of antimalarials distributed in table salt across large populations ( Pinotti et al . , 1955 ) . This program likely led to the emergence of parasite resistance in the same regions ( Wootton et al . , 2002 ) and this has in part led to hesitance among some institutions ( i . e . the World Health Organization and ministries of health ) to implement MDA for malaria ( World Health Organization , 2015a ) . MDA should ideally be used in settings with strong public health infrastructure , including easy access to diagnosis and treatment; an up-to-date and responsive surveillance system; and effective community engagement . Used appropriately , MDA can quickly reduce or eliminate parasite reservoirs and can act as a catalyst for subregional elimination of P . falciparum malaria ( Landier et al . , 2018a ) . While antimalarials are usually administered following diagnosis ( confirmed or presumed ) or used as a prophylactic , MDA is used because of an intended population- or community-level effect . The rationale is that the transmission potential or reproductive rate of malaria is so high that a sufficient amount of the parasite reservoir needs to be removed in order to disrupt transmission . This group-level effect is also referred to as a ‘herd effect’ ( John and Samuel , 2000; Pollard et al . , 2015 ) and the concept applies to most communicable diseases . If a sufficient amount of the population participates in MDA , transmission chains cannot be sustained and transmission will cease , ultimately leading to a reduction in malaria morbidity and mortality ( World Health Organization , 2017 ) . There is likely to be a context-specific critical threshold for MDA coverage , below which the reduction of the parasite reservoir is not sufficient to halt ongoing transmission . Some literature has suggested that at least 80% coverage and adherence of MDA in the targeted population is necessary in order for the MDA to be successful ( World Health Organization , 2015b ) . If the aim for antimalarial MDA is to interrupt transmission , the notion of a herd effect providing additional levels of population protection is plausible but has not been examined empirically ( Cotter et al . , 2013 ) . Drawing from detailed micro-epidemiological and spatial data from an MDA trial in Kayin State , Myanmar ( Figure 1 ) , we describe geographic and epidemiological patterns of clinical and subclinical P . falciparum malaria in villages undergoing MDA . We investigate associations between individual- and group-level participation in MDA ( potential direct and indirect effects , respectively ) ; subclinical infections; and clinical episodes of P . falciparum post-MDA . Such empirical research is important for providing an evidence base for further research , intervention , and policy work . 
Divergent morphology of species has largely been ascribed to genetic differences in the tissue-specific expression of proteins , which could be achieved by divergence in cis-regulatory elements or by altering the binding specificity of transcription factors ( TFs ) . The relative importance of the latter has been difficult to assess , as previous systematic analyses of TF binding specificity have been performed using different methods in different species . To address this , we determined the binding specificities of 242 Drosophila TFs , and compared them to human and mouse data . This analysis revealed that TF binding specificities are highly conserved between Drosophila and mammals , and that for orthologous TFs , the similarity extends even to the level of very subtle dinucleotide binding preferences . The few human TFs with divergent specificities function in cell types not found in fruit flies , suggesting that evolution of TF specificities contributes to emergence of novel types of differentiated cells .  It is estimated that the divergence between vertebrate and invertebrate lineages occurred over 600 million years ago ( Hedges et al . , 2006; Peterson et al . , 2008 ) . After the divergence , protein coding sequences have retained a relatively high level of similarity , whereas homology in gene-regulatory elements is not detectable , despite the fact that many developmental pathways and regulatory relationships between TFs and their target genes have been conserved ( see e g . , Goodrich et al . , 1996; Pichaud and Desplan , 2002; Ciglar and Furlong , 2009 ) . Lack of sequence conservation in gene regulatory elements despite their conserved function could be a consequence of divergence of the gene regulatory code between vertebrates and invertebrates . Some changes in coding sequences of TFs have indeed been observed , and linked to specific evolutionary adaptations ( Enard et al . , 2002; Di-Poï et al . , 2010 ) . Several studies have indicated that primary TF DNA binding specificity evolves slowly , and is extremely conserved between mammalian species ( see e g . , Bohmann et al . , 1987; Struhl , 1987; Merika and Orkin , 1993; Amoutzias et al . , 2007; Wei et al . , 2010; Jolma et al . , 2013 ) . The origin of most structural families of TFs dates well before the emergence of mammals , and even predates the divergence of vertebrates and invertebrates . Within each TF family , DNA binding specificity has also diverged considerably , with many families having 2–10 different subclasses displaying different primary binding specificities ( Berger et al . , 2008; Wei et al . , 2010; Jolma et al . , 2013 ) . In addition , many differences in the TF repertoire between invertebrates and vertebrates exist due to the expansion of some gene families , such as nuclear receptors and C2H2 zinc finger factors in vertebrates ( Charoensawan et al . , 2010 ) . It is currently unclear to what extent such expansion of TF families has changed the gene regulatory code by introducing novel DNA-binding specificities . Systematic comparison of DNA binding specificities between vertebrates and invertebrates has been difficult . Databases collecting TF binding specificity information , such as TRANSFAC ( Matys et al . , 2006 ) and Jaspar ( Bryne et al . , 2008 ) contain a large number of specificities from different species . However , the data are generally derived using different methods in different laboratories , and therefore it is very difficult to separate method-specific biases from real differences in binding specificity , particularly in cases where the differences are not very pronounced . Comparison of TF binding specificities obtained using in vivo methods such as ChIP-seq or deep DNase I hypersensitivity ( Celniker et al . , 2009; ENCODE Project Consortium , 2012; Wang et al . , 2013; He et al . , 2014 ) , in turn , can result in identification of signals derived from heterodimers or indirect DNA binding , and is affected by biases due to the fact that different genomes have different GC content and repertoire of repetitive elements . Furthermore , although large systematic datasets exist for in vitro binding specificity of human and mouse TFs determined using protein-binding microarrays ( Badis et al . , 2009 ) and high throughput SELEX ( HT-SELEX; Jolma et al . , 2013 ) , these methods have not been previously used to systematically analyze specificities of many TF families from more distantly related organisms . Conversely , a large collection of Drosophila TF binding specificities has been generated using bacterial one-hybrid assay ( B1H; Noyes et al . , 2008; Zhu et al . , 2011; Enuameh et al . , 2013 ) . However , this method has not been applied to mammalian TFs at a scale sufficient for a broad comparison of TF specificity . The lack of large , high resolution datasets generated using similar methods have limited previous studies of conservation of TF binding specificity to studies of divergence of strong core binding specificities in a limited number of cases ( see e g . , Bohmann et al . , 1987; Struhl , 1987 ) . However , in addition to the primary specificity , many TFs have secondary modes of DNA binding , can recognize multiple different homodimeric sites and/or recognize multiple different sequences based on DNA shape ( Badis et al . , 2009; Rohs et al . , 2010; Jolma et al . , 2013 ) . These , more subtle DNA binding preferences could potentially change faster than and independently of the canonical core DNA recognition motif , and could thus also allow TF specificity to slowly drift in evolution . To characterize the role of divergence and subtle drift in TF DNA binding specificity in animal diversity , we used HT-SELEX to determine TF binding specificities in Drosophila melanogaster . For this , we used existing full-length collection of Drosophila TF cDNAs ( Hens et al . , 2011 ) , and also generated a novel genome-scale collection of fruit fly TF DNA binding domain ( DBD ) constructs . The TFs were expressed in E . coli and their specificity determined using HT-SELEX ( Jolma et al . , 2010 , 2013 ) , and compared to our existing human and mouse HT-SELEX data . A striking level of conservation of TF binding specificity was observed , with fruit flies having almost as complex a repertoire of TF binding motifs as humans . Conservation of specificity extended to secondary modes of binding , and even subtle dinucleotide preferences , suggesting that TF binding specificities are not subject to substantial evolutionary drift . Specificities exclusive to either of the species were detected most commonly in cases where a TF subfamily had expanded in one of the species . Only two clear cases of divergence of specificity were observed between orthologs . These results indicate that TF evolution is constrained by structural limitations of the TF folds , and that changes in specificity are rare , and when they occur , tend to have relatively large effects . Interestingly , TF specificities that exist only in human are important for physiology of cell types that do not exist in fruit flies , suggesting that novel TF specificities contribute to formation of new types of differentiated cells . 
The extensive crosstalk between the developing heart and lung is critical to their proper morphogenesis and maturation . However , there remains a lack of models that investigate the critical cardio-pulmonary mutual interaction during human embryogenesis . Here , we reported a novel stepwise strategy for directing the simultaneous induction of both mesoderm-derived cardiac and endoderm-derived lung epithelial lineages within a single differentiation of human-induced pluripotent stem cells ( hiPSCs ) via temporal specific tuning of WNT and nodal signaling in the absence of exogenous growth factors . Using 3D suspension culture , we established concentric cardio-pulmonary micro-Tissues ( μTs ) , and expedited alveolar maturation in the presence of cardiac accompaniment . Upon withdrawal of WNT agonist , the cardiac and pulmonary components within each dual-lineage μT effectively segregated from each other with concurrent initiation of cardiac contraction . We expect that our multilineage differentiation model will offer an experimentally tractable system for investigating human cardio-pulmonary interaction and tissue boundary formation during embryogenesis .  Human embryogenesis is a highly orchestrated process that requires delicate coordination between organs that originate from different germ layers . As the two main organs within the chest cavity , the mesoderm-derived heart and endoderm-derived lung partake in have extensive mutual interaction that are essential for their proper morphogenesis ( Peng et al . , 2013; Hoffmann et al . , 2009; Arora et al . , 2012; Steimle , 2018 ) . During mouse embryonic development , WNT derived from the second heart field induces specification of pulmonary endoderm , which in turn secretes SHH that signals back to the heart and regulates proper atrial septation ( Steimle , 2018; Zhou , 2017; Hoffmann et al . , 2009 ) . This inter-lineage crosstalk is partly mediated by the multipotent mesodermal progenitors located between the developing heart and lung , which have the potential for lineage contribution to pulmonary endothelium , pulmonary smooth muscle and cardiomyocytes ( Peng et al . , 2013 ) . However , the extent of translation of findings derived from rodent models to the understanding of developmental interplay between human cardio-pulmonary systems remains unclear . There is , therefore , a critical need for experimentally tractable systems for investigating human cardio-pulmonary co-development during organogenesis . Much work has been done for directed differentiation of hiPSCs into either cardiomyocytes ( Lian et al . , 2012; Mummery et al . , 2012; Burridge et al . , 2014; Lian et al . , 2015; Lee et al . , 2017; Kattman et al . , 2011 ) , or pulmonary epithelium ( Chen et al . , 2017; Huang et al . , 2013; Jacob et al . , 2017; Dye et al . , 2015; Gotoh et al . , 2014; Wong et al . , 2012 ) , both of which often utilize stepwise differentiation strategies that recapitulate key developmental signaling events . To recapitulate cardiogenesis , hiPSCs were sequentially specified into mesoderm , cardiac mesoderm , and then NKX2 . 5+ cardiac progenitors ( Lian et al . , 2012; Mummery et al . , 2012; Burridge et al . , 2014; Lian et al . , 2015; Lee et al . , 2017; Kattman et al . , 2011; Laflamme et al . , 2007 ) . For pulmonary induction , hiPSCs went through stages corresponding to definitive endoderm and anterior foregut endoderm , and then became NKX2 . 1+ lung epithelial progenitors ( Chen et al . , 2017; Huang et al . , 2013; Jacob et al . , 2017; Dye et al . , 2015; Gotoh et al . , 2014; Wong et al . , 2012; D’Amour et al . , 2005; Longmire et al . , 2012 ) . Despite the significant contributions of these models make to the mechanistic understanding of human heart and lung organogenesis , they generally focus on one organ parenchyma at a time . It remains challenging to model and investigate multi-organ co-development within a single differentiation of hiPSCs , especially when the organs of interest are derived from different germ layers , as is the case for the heart and lung . Comparison of existing protocols for single-lineage cardiac and pulmonary differentiation from hiPSCs indicates shared regulators despite their distinct germ-layer origin . Firstly , both endodermal and mesodermal specification is facilitated by the inhibition of insulin and phosphoinositide 3-kinase signaling ( Lian et al . , 2012; Lian et al . , 2013; Mou et al . , 2012 ) , and can be induced by a similar set of paracrine factors , including WNT , BMP , and TGF-β ( Kattman et al . , 2011; D’Amour et al . , 2005; Loh , 2014 ) . It is the quantitative combination of these signaling that determines endoderm versus mesoderm bifurcation ( Kattman et al . , 2011; Loh , 2014; Kim , 2015 ) . This is consistent with the shared primitive streak origin of both germ layers during gastrulation ( Levak-Svajger and Svajger , 1974; Lawson et al . , 1991; Tam and Beddington , 1987 ) . Secondly , WNT inhibition not only facilitates the transition from definitive endoderm to anterior foregut endoderm ( Loh , 2014; Spence et al . , 2011 ) , but it also promotes cardiac mesoderm emergence ( Lian et al . , 2012; Willems et al . , 2011; Wang et al . , 2011; Ren et al . , 2011; Tran , 2009 ) . Lastly , retinoic acid ( RA ) signaling is required for the induction and maturation of both cardiac and pulmonary progenitors ( Huang et al . , 2013; Jacob et al . , 2017; Mou et al . , 2012; Chen , 2007; McCauley et al . , 2017 ) . These common paracrine regulation of paralleled cardiac and pulmonary specification is consistent with their close spatial coordinates within the embryonic body planning , as demonstrated by shared HOX genes expression and functional requirement ( Lufkin et al . , 1991; Makki and Capecchi , 2012; Chisaka and Capecchi , 1991 ) . In this study , we described a stepwise , growth-factor-free protocol for simultaneous induction of cardiac and pulmonary progenitors from a single culture of hiPSCs . This is accomplished by initial co-induction of mesoderm and definitive endoderm mixture , followed by their concurrent specification into cardiac ( NKX2 . 5+ ) and lung ( NKX2 . 1+ ) progenitors , respectively , using the same sets of small molecule cocktails modulating WNT , nodal and TGF-β signaling in a temporal specific manner . Using 3D suspension culture with continuing WNT activation , we engineered pulmonary-centered , cardio-pulmonary micro-Tissues ( μTs ) , and demonstrated the accompanying cardiac lineage as an essential cellular niche that promoted effective alveolar maturation . Finally , following the withdrawal of WNT agonist , each concentric cardio-pulmonary μT reorganized and ultimately segregated into cardiac-only and pulmonary-only μTs . This work therefore offers an effective hiPSC-based model for investigating cardio-pulmonary co-development and tissue segregation during human embryogenesis . 
While specific mutations allow organisms to adapt to stressful environments , most changes in an organism's DNA negatively impact fitness . The mutation rate is therefore strictly regulated and often considered a slowly-evolving parameter . In contrast , we demonstrate an unexpected flexibility in cellular mutation rates as a response to changes in selective pressure . We show that hypermutation independently evolves when different Escherichia coli cultures adapt to high ethanol stress . Furthermore , hypermutator states are transitory and repeatedly alternate with decreases in mutation rate . Specifically , population mutation rates rise when cells experience higher stress and decline again once cells are adapted . Interestingly , we identified cellular mortality as the major force driving the quick evolution of mutation rates . Together , these findings show how organisms balance robustness and evolvability and help explain the prevalence of hypermutation in various settings , ranging from emergence of antibiotic resistance in microbes to cancer relapses upon chemotherapy .  Theory predicts that the optimal mutation rate depends on several different factors , including genome size and effective population size . For example , unicellular organisms , such as viruses and bacteria , exhibit per-base mutation rates that are inversely correlated with their population and genome sizes , whereas multicellular organisms with much larger genomes and smaller effective population sizes may have higher per-base mutation rates ( Lynch , 2010; Lynch et al . , 2016 ) . While mutations are necessary to adapt to new and stressful environments ( Barrick and Lenski , 2013; Wiser et al . , 2013 ) , random changes in an organism’s DNA are rarely beneficial , but more often neutral or slightly deleterious ( Elena and Lenski , 2003a; Perfeito et al . , 2007; Eyre-Walker and Keightley , 2007 ) . Consequently , mutation rates are strictly balanced by the trade-off between the need for mutations to adapt and the concomitant increase in genetic load ( Sniegowski and Raynes , 2013; Lynch , 2011; Wielgoss et al . , 2013; Desai and Fisher , 2011 ) . This trade-off between adaptability and adaptedness is believed to be responsible for the low genomic mutation rates usually observed in organisms , while a further decrease in mutation rate is restricted by the energy needed to increase and maintain high replication fidelity ( de Visser , 2002; Sung et al . , 2016; Sniegowski et al . , 2000; Ram and Hadany , 2014 ) . Furthermore , the power of random drift will limit selection on even lower mutation rates when additional increases in replication fidelity are insufficiently advantageous . Due to this drift-barrier , mutation rates are believed to evolve to an equilibrium where the strength of selection matches the power of drift ( Lynch et al . , 2016 ) . An organism’s cellular mutation rate is generally considered to be near-constant ( Lynch , 2010; Drake , 1991 ) , yet the optimal mutation rate has been reported to depend on the environment ( Elena and de Visser , 2003b; Rando and Verstrepen , 2007 ) . Wild-type bacteria grown under optimal conditions typically have low mutation rates in the order of 10−3 mutations per genome per generation ( Lee et al . , 2012; Drake et al . , 1998 ) . Under these conditions , hypermutators with weakly ( 10-fold ) or strongly ( 100–10 . 000-fold ) increased mutation rates occur only sporadically ( de Visser , 2002; Marinus , 2010 ) . Despite low frequencies of hypermutators in laboratory populations ( Boe et al . , 2000 ) , a much higher prevalence is observed in natural bacterial populations ( Gross and Siegel , 1981; Hall and Henderson-Begg , 2006 ) , such as clinical isolates of pathogenic E . coli ( Matic et al . , 1997; Denamur et al . , 2002; LeClerc et al . , 1996 ) , Pseudomonas aeruginosa ( Marvig et al . , 2013 , 2015; Oliver , 2015; Ferroni et al . , 2009 ) , Salmonella ( LeClerc et al . , 1996 ) , Staphylococcus aureus ( Iguchi et al . , 2016 ) among others ( Negri et al . , 2002; Gould et al . , 2007; Rajanna et al . , 2013 ) and in nearly all A . baumannii strains adapting to severe tigecycline stress ( Hammerstrom et al . , 2015 ) . In addition , high frequency of hypermutation is also documented in eukaryotic pathogens including the malaria-causing parasite Plasmodium falciparum ( Lee and Fidock , 2016; Gupta et al . , 2016 ) and the fungal pathogen Candida glabrata ( Healey et al . , 2016 ) . Moreover , hypermutation plays an important role in cancer development and proliferation , as it helps to overcome different barriers to tumor progression ( Wang et al . , 2016; Bielas et al . , 2006; Roberts and Gordenin , 2014 ) . These observations suggest the natural occurrence of situations in which higher mutation rates confer a selectable advantage . This is especially obvious in harsh environments , where near-lethal stress requires swift adaptation of at least some individuals to avoid complete extinction of the population ( Bell and Gonzalez , 2011 ) . Adaptation sufficiently rapid to save a population from extinction is called evolutionary rescue . This phenomenon is widely studied in the light of climate change and adaptation of declining populations to new environments ( Lindsey et al . , 2013 ) . It occurs when a population under stress lacks sufficient phenotypic plasticity and can only avoid extinction through genetic change ( Gonzalez et al . , 2013 ) . Evolutionary rescue depends on different factors such as the population size , genome size , mutation rate , degree of environmental change and history of the stress ( Gonzalez et al . , 2013; Gonzalez and Bell , 2013 ) . By increasing the supply of mutations , hypermutation might also be crucial to enable evolutionary rescue for populations under near-lethal stress . Despite the high prevalence of hypermutation in clinical settings , current knowledge is lacking on the long-term fate of mutators and their specific role in survival under near-lethal stress conditions . Previous studies exploring the costs and benefits of mutators mostly focused on mild stresses . Both experimental evidence and theory show that mutators can readily increase in frequency in a population through second-order selection . In this case , a mutator hitchhikes along with a sporadically occurring , beneficial mutation that thrives under natural selection ( Gentile et al . , 2011; Woods et al . , 2011; Giraud et al . , 2001; Shaver et al . , 2002; Mao et al . , 1997; Sniegowski et al . , 1997 ) . This process relies on different elements , such as initial mutator frequency ( Tenaillon et al . , 1999 ) , the relative timing of the emergence of one or multiple beneficial mutations ( Tanaka et al . , 2003 ) , the degree of environmental change or selection strength ( Mao et al . , 1997; Pal et al . , 2007 ) , the mutational spectrum ( Couce et al . , 2013 ) and the strength of the specific mutator ( Loh et al . , 2010 ) . Although hypermutation can readily spread in a population by means of hitchhiking when adaptation is required , long-term evolution experiments also show selection against hypermutation ( Lynch , 2011; Tröbner and Piechocki , 1984 ) . These results demonstrate that the actual mutation rate of a population is prone to change by evolution . However , our current knowledge on the long-term dynamics of hypermutation and the mechanisms underlying changes in mutation rate remains fragmentary . Specifically , conditions under which the spread of mutators is inhibited or the increased mutation rate is reversed , remain largely unexplored ( Raynes and Sniegowski , 2014 ) . The aim of the current study was to better understand the dynamics of hypermutation under near-lethal , complex stress . Therefore , we used E . coli exposed to high ethanol stress as a model system ( Goodarzi et al . , 2010; Nicolaou et al . , 2012 ) . Here , multiple mutations epistatically interact and diverse evolutionary trajectories can lead to adaptation to high ethanol concentrations ( Voordeckers et al . , 2015 ) . In our study , we found an unexpected flexibility in cellular mutation rates as a response to changes in selective pressure . First , we used a defined collection of mutators with distinct mutation rates to identify a range of optimal mutation rates to enable rapid growth under high ethanol stress . Next , experimental evolution revealed an essential role for hypermutation for de novo adaptation to high ethanol stress . While hypermutation quickly and recurrently arose concurrent with increases in ethanol concentrations , mutation rates rapidly declined again once cells were adapted to the stress . Interestingly , we identified cellular mortality as the major force that drives fast evolution of mutation rates . In summary , our results shed new light on the dynamics of mutation rate evolution and help explain why maintaining high mutation rates is limited in time . 
Metabolic adjustment to changing environmental conditions , particularly balancing of growth and defense responses , is crucial for all organisms to survive . The evolutionary conserved AMPK/Snf1/SnRK1 kinases are well-known metabolic master regulators in the low-energy response in animals , yeast and plants . They act at two different levels: by modulating the activity of key metabolic enzymes , and by massive transcriptional reprogramming . While the first part is well established , the latter function is only partially understood in animals and not at all in plants . Here we identified the Arabidopsis transcription factor bZIP63 as key regulator of the starvation response and direct target of the SnRK1 kinase . Phosphorylation of bZIP63 by SnRK1 changed its dimerization preference , thereby affecting target gene expression and ultimately primary metabolism . A bzip63 knock-out mutant exhibited starvation-related phenotypes , which could be functionally complemented by wild type bZIP63 , but not by a version harboring point mutations in the identified SnRK1 target sites .  Flexibility in the regulation of gene expression is crucial for all organisms to adjust their metabolism to changing growth conditions . Particularly under stress , available energy resources need to be balanced between defense and growth . The SUCROSE NON-FERMENTING RELATED KINASE 1 ( SnRK1 ) in plants and its orthologs , the sucrose-non-fermenting 1 ( Snf1 ) kinase in yeast and the AMP-dependent protein kinase ( AMPK ) in mammals , are well-known and crucial master regulators of energy homeostasis . SnRK1 is involved in the regulation of plant metabolism , development , and stress response ( Polge and Thomas , 2007; Baena-González and Sheen , 2008 ) , Snf1 is required for the switch from fermentative to oxidative metabolism in the absence of glucose ( Hedbacker and Carlson , 2008 ) , and AMPK regulates glucose , lipid , and protein metabolism , mitochondrial biogenesis , and feeding behavior in animals ( Hardie et al . , 2012 ) . They are generally activated under energy starvation conditions and trigger metabolic reprograming to slow down energy-consuming processes and turn on pathways for alternative energy production in order to survive the stress conditions ( Hardie , 2007; Tome et al . , 2014 ) . This happens , in two ways: by direct phosphorylation and modulation of the activity of key enzymes in nitrogen , carbon , or fatty acid metabolism ( Sugden et al . , 1999; Kulma et al . , 2004; Harthill et al . , 2006 ) , and by massive transcriptional reprogramming ( Polge and Thomas , 2007; Baena-González and Sheen , 2008; McGee and Hargreaves , 2008 ) . Especially in plants , the latter aspect , the regulation of transcription , is still poorly understood . In Arabidopsis protoplasts , transient overexpression of AKIN10 , a catalytic subunit of the SnRK1 complex , resulted in a transcriptional profile reminiscent of various starvation conditions and led to the identification of 1021 putative SnRK1 target genes ( Baena-González et al . , 2007 ) . However , the transcription factors mediating the transcriptional response of SnRK1 to energy starvation are still unknown . Based on reporter gene activation assays in protoplasts ( Baena-González et al . , 2007 ) and modelling of microarray data ( Usadel et al . , 2008 ) , some members of the C/S1 group of basic leucine zipper ( bZIP ) transcription factors ( TFs ) —foremost bZIP11 and bZIP1 from the S1 group—were speculated to be involved in this process . Yet , a direct regulation of these bZIPs by SnRK1 has never been shown . bZIP proteins form a large and highly conserved group of eukaryotic TFs . They bind the DNA as dimers and are characterized by a basic region for specific DNA binding and a leucine zipper for dimerization ( Deppmann et al . , 2006; Reinke et al . , 2013 ) . They are involved in a multitude of cellular processes , including cell proliferation and differentiation , metabolism , stress response , and apoptosis ( Mayr and Montminy , 2001; Jakoby et al . , 2002; Motohashi et al . , 2002; Rodrigues-Pousada et al . , 2010; Tsukada et al . , 2011 ) . The diversity and flexibility of transcriptional regulation by bZIP TFs can at least partially be attributed to their potential to form variable dimer combinations , which bind to different consensus target sites ( Deppmann et al . , 2006; Tsukada et al . , 2011 ) . While the leucine zipper determines the possible dimer combinations ( Deppmann et al . , 2006; Reinke et al . , 2013 ) , the actual in vivo dimer composition is further influenced by factors such as protein availability , binding of regulatory proteins , or post-translational modifications ( Kim et al . , 2007; Schuetze et al . , 2008; Lee et al . , 2010 ) . Since the initial discovery that the mammalian bZIP cAMP response element binding protein ( CREB ) is regulated by reversible phosphorylation , many bZIP TFs were reported to be phosphorylated ( Holmberg et al . , 2002; Schuetze et al . , 2008; Tsukada et al . , 2011 ) . However , particularly in plants , the functional consequences of these phosphorylation events often remained unclear . For example , it has been known for several years that abscisic acid ( ABA ) -dependent phosphorylation of some ABA-responsive element binding proteins ( AREBs ) by SnRK2 kinases increases their transcriptional activity ( Furihata et al . , 2006 ) , yet the underlying mechanism of this activation is still unknown . It is also surprising that , while many examples for phosphorylation-dependent regulation of bZIP activity , DNA-binding , subcellular localization , stability , and interaction with regulatory proteins are known ( Schuetze et al . , 2008; Tsukada et al . , 2011 ) , reports on the regulation of dimerization are scarce . So far , only three publications ( Kim et al . , 2007; Guo et al . , 2010; Lee et al . , 2010 ) showed compelling evidence for phosphorylation-dependent changes in bZIP dimerization in animals . Still , even in these cases it is often not entirely clear whether bZIP phosphorylation affects dimerization directly or indirectly by enhancing DNA binding . bZIP63 is a member of the C-group of Arabidopsis bZIPs , which was proposed to play a role in energy metabolism , seed maturation , and germination under osmotic stress ( Jakoby et al . , 2002; Correa et al . , 2008; Veerabagu et al . , 2014 ) . Its transcriptional profile indicates that bZIP63 could be involved in the ( energy ) starvation response , as transcription and mRNA stability are repressed by sugars and ABA and mRNA levels increase in the night and even more during extended night treatments ( Matiolli et al . , 2011; Kunz et al . , 2014 ) . A small set of potential target genes for bZIP63 has been identified , including genes involved in amino acid metabolism ( ASN1/DIN6 = ASPARAGINE SYNTHETASE 1 , ProDH = PROLINE DEHYDROGENASE ) , energy starvation response ( DIN10 = RAFFINOSE SYNTHASE 6 ) , and senescence ( SEN1 = SENESCENCE 1 ) ( Baena-González et al . , 2007; Dietrich et al . , 2011; Matiolli et al . , 2011; Veerabagu et al . , 2014 ) . The C-group bZIPs form a dimerization network with the S1-group in plants , in which bZIP63 can interact with all members ( Ehlert et al . , 2006; Kang et al . , 2010 ) . Three of its dimerization partners from the S1-group—bZIP1 , bZIP11 , and bZIP53—were shown to be important metabolic regulators , especially under energy starvation conditions , and to regulate the expression of ASN1 and ProDH as well ( Hanson et al . , 2008; Dietrich et al . , 2011; Ma et al . , 2011 ) . Furthermore , bZIP1 was recently confirmed as a transcriptional master regulator of the rapid response to nutrient signals controlling mainly genes involved in amino acid metabolism and cell death/phosphorus metabolism as primary targets ( Para et al . , 2014 ) . In that study the authors also speculate about a posttranslational modification of bZIP1 or its binding partners . Here we show that bZIP63 is an important metabolic regulator , especially under stress/starvation conditions , and that bZIP63 is phosphorylated at multiple sites in vivo in a sugar- and energy-dependent manner . In an unbiased approach , we identified SnRK1 as one of the kinases responsible for bZIP63 phosphorylation and found that it targets three highly conserved serine residues in the N- and C-terminus of bZIP63 . Moreover , we demonstrate that the phosphorylation of these sites is crucial for bZIP63's dimerization and activity in planta and propose a molecular model for a phosphorylation-triggered switch of bZIP63 dimerization partners , which ultimately regulates metabolic reprogramming . 
Synapses and nuclei are connected by bidirectional communication mechanisms that enable information transfer encoded by macromolecules . Here , we identified RNF10 as a novel synaptonuclear protein messenger . RNF10 is activated by calcium signals at the postsynaptic compartment and elicits discrete changes at the transcriptional level . RNF10 is enriched at the excitatory synapse where it associates with the GluN2A subunit of NMDA receptors ( NMDARs ) . Activation of synaptic GluN2A-containing NMDARs and induction of long term potentiation ( LTP ) lead to the translocation of RNF10 from dendritic segments and dendritic spines to the nucleus . In particular , we provide evidence for importin-dependent long-distance transport from synapto-dendritic compartments to the nucleus . Notably , RNF10 silencing prevents the maintenance of LTP as well as LTP-dependent structural modifications of dendritic spines .  Understanding how local synaptic events are translated into changes in gene expression is a crucial question in neuroscience . Synapses and nuclei are efficiently connected by bidirectional communication routes that enable transfer of information ( Fainzilber et al . , 2011; Panayotis et al . , 2015 ) and regulate the transcription of genes associated with long-term structural changes of neuronal excitability ( Karpova et al . , 2012 ) . NMDAR activation plays a key role in this regard ( Hardingham and Bading , 2010 ) . NMDARs are heteromeric ionotropic channels that are essential for excitatory neurotransmission ( Paoletti et al . , 2013; Sanz-Clemente et al . , 2013 ) . NMDARs differ in their subunit composition and , in the forebrain , they can be either di- or tri-heteromeric tetramers consisting of two GluN1 and either one or two GluN2A or GluN2B subunits ( Paoletti et al . , 2013 ) . GluN2A-containing NMDARs are mainly localized at the postsynaptic membrane , at the core of the postsynaptic density ( PSD ) , while the GluN2B-containing NMDARs are also prominently present at extrasynaptic sites ( Hardingham and Bading , 2010 ) . In addition , numerous reports have indicated that GluN2A- and GluN2B-containing NMDARs may play different roles in the modulation of synaptic plasticity and in central nervous system ( CNS ) disorders ( Paoletti et al . , 2013 ) . These differences in receptor function are probably linked to the cytoplasmic C-tail of the two subunits , which are fairly different and contain specific motifs that bind to PSD-associated scaffolding proteins and to proteins involved in the downstream signal transduction of receptor activation ( Sanz-Clemente et al . , 2013; Sun et al . , 2016 ) . It is generally accepted that rises in synaptic , somatic and nuclear Ca2+ rapidly regulate gene expression by Ca2+-sensing mechanisms ( Bading , 2013 ) . Recent work showed that following a fast genomic response to sustained rises in Ca2+ , a considerably slower process that depends on the nuclear import of proteins released from synapses couples local synaptic events to more specific gene expression programs ( Jordan and Kreutz , 2009; Ch'ng and Martin , 2011; Karpova et al . , 2012 ) . The classical active nuclear import pathway involves the binding of importin α isoforms to nuclear localization signal ( NLS ) bearing cargo proteins . Interestingly , neuronal importins are present at synapses in association with NMDARs and the PSD ( Dieterich et al . , 2008; Jeffrey et al . , 2009 ) and they are able to translocate to the nucleus in response to NMDAR activation ( Thompson et al . , 2004; Dieterich et al . , 2008 ) . Proteomic studies have identified many proteins in purified synaptosomes that contain a NLS domain , and in the past 10 years , an impressive number of potential synaptonuclear messenger proteins have been characterized ( Ch'ng et al . , 2012; Karpova et al . , 2013; Kaushik et al . , 2014 ) . Many of these proteins contain a bona fide NLS and , in some cases , their binding with importin α was shown to be essential for long-distance transport as importin α can serve as an adaptor for nuclear trafficking of cargo in association with a dynein motor ( Karpova et al . , 2012; Ch'ng et al . , 2012 ) . In recent studies , it was shown that Jacob , a Caldendrin-binding protein abundantly expressed in limbic brain and cortex ( Dieterich et al . , 2008 ) , encodes and transduces the synaptic and extrasynaptic origin of GluN2B-containing NMDAR signals to the nucleus and elicits the divergent transcriptional responses after activation of these receptors ( Dieterich et al . , 2008; Karpova et al . , 2013 ) . These findings point to the fascinating possibility that specific NMDAR signals are encoded at synaptic sites and decoded in the nucleus by long-distance trafficking of protein messengers . Here , we identified Ring Finger protein 10 ( RNF10; Seki et al . , 2000 ) as a novel synaptonuclear protein messenger , localized at the PSD and specifically associated to the cytoplasmic tail of GluN2A but not GluN2B subunit of NMDARs . After stimulation of synaptic GluN2A-containing NMDARs , RNF10 binds to importin α1 for nuclear long-distance transport . Notably , we show that long-term potentiation ( LTP ) induces nuclear translocation of RNF10 , its interaction with the transcription factor Meox2 and the modulation of gene expression . Most interestingly , RNF10-regulated gene expression appears to feed back to synaptic function . 
Swi2/Snf2 ATPases remodel substrates such as nucleosomes and transcription complexes to control a wide range of DNA-associated processes , but detailed structural information on the ATP-dependent remodeling reactions is largely absent . The single subunit remodeler Mot1 ( modifier of transcription 1 ) dissociates TATA box-binding protein ( TBP ) :DNA complexes , offering a useful system to address the structural mechanisms of Swi2/Snf2 ATPases . Here , we report the crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of Mot1 in complex with TBP , DNA , and the transcription regulator negative cofactor 2 ( NC2 ) . Our data show that Mot1 reduces DNA:NC2 interactions and unbends DNA as compared to the TBP:DNA:NC2 state , suggesting that Mot1 primes TBP:NC2 displacement in an ATP-independent manner . Electron microscopy and cross-linking data suggest that the Swi2/Snf2 domain of Mot1 associates with the upstream DNA and the histone fold of NC2 , thereby revealing parallels to some nucleosome remodelers . This study provides a structural framework for how a Swi2/Snf2 ATPase interacts with its substrate DNA:protein complex .  Swi2/Snf2 ( switch/sucrose non-fermenting 2 ) ATPases form a large and diverse class of proteins and multiprotein assemblies within the SF2 superfamily of helicases/translocases ( Flaus et al . , 2006 ) . Swi2/Snf2 enzymes are best known as the principal catalytic subunits of large chromatin remodeling complexes that regulate the spatial arrangement and histone composition of nucleosomes , e . g . SWI/SNF , ISWI , CHD , and INO80 remodelers ( Gangaraju and Bartholomew , 2007; Clapier and Cairns , 2009 ) . Current models propose that Swi2/Snf2 ATPases track the minor groove of DNA , thereby generating tension that induces transient or permanent alterations in molecular assemblies ( Saha et al . , 2002; Whitehouse et al . , 2003; Zofall et al . , 2006 ) . Although high-resolution structures of some Swi2/Snf2 domains and their substrate-interacting domains associated with DNA and protein have been previously described , detailed structural information about these ATPases bound to substrate proteins and DNA is largely absent ( Dürr et al . , 2005; Thomä et al . , 2005; Shaw et al . , 2008; Hauk et al . , 2010; Sharma et al . , 2011; Yamada et al . , 2011 ) . The lack of structural insights is owed to the complex , often multisubunit architecture of Swi2/Snf2 enzyme-containing complexes and their inherent structural flexibilities . Mot1 ( modifier of transcription 1 , also denoted BTAF1 ) is conserved from protozoa to humans and was the first Swi2/Snf2 member for which the biochemical activity has been demonstrated in vitro ( Auble and Hahn , 1993 ) . Mot1 dissociates TATA box-binding protein ( TBP ) from DNA in an ATP-dependent manner , thereby directly regulating transcription initiation process and global redistribution of TBP in the cell ( Auble and Hahn , 1993; Dasgupta et al . , 2002; Darst et al . , 2003; Zentner and Henikoff , 2013 ) . In contrast to the majority of other Swi2/Snf2 enzymes , Mot1 does not require any associated subunit for its essential activity and serves as a useful model system for studying Swi2/Snf2 enzymes in vitro . The crystal structure of the N-terminal domain of Encephalitozoon cuniculi Mot1 ( Mot1NTD ) in complex with TBP showed that Mot1 consists of 16 HEAT repeats ( Huntingtin , elongation factor 3 , protein phosphatase 2A , lipid kinase TOR ) that are arranged in a horseshoe-like shape ( Wollmann et al . , 2011 ) . Of note was that a long loop between HEAT repeats 2 and 3 , denoted as the ‘latch’ , can bind to TBP's concave site and block TBP–DNA association . Therefore , previous analyses have revealed not only how Mot1 binds TBP , but also that Mot1 functions as a TBP chaperone . Numerous biochemical and more recent structural studies of the Mot1:TBP complex predicted the approximate positioning of the ATPase domain ( Mot1CTD ) with respect to the DNA upstream of the TATA box ( Auble and Hahn , 1993; Auble et al . , 1994; Darst et al . , 2001; Gumbs et al . , 2003; Sprouse et al . , 2006; Wollmann et al . , 2011; Moyle-Heyrman et al . , 2012 ) . A limitation of our previous work on Mot1:TBP was the finding that the crystallized state evidently represents the ‘product’ state after the remodeling reaction took place , but it remained unclear how Mot1 directly impacts the TBP:DNA ‘substrate’ state prior to the remodeling reaction ( Wollmann et al . , 2011 ) . Obtaining a substrate state with DNA and TBP turned out to be difficult because Mot1NTD can disrupt TBP:DNA by its latch . However , we found that the Mot1:TBP:DNA complex is much more stable in the presence of negative cofactor 2 ( NC2 ) , another global transcriptional regulator , whose occurrence coincides with Mot1 and TBP at many genomic locations ( Andrau et al . , 2002; Dasgupta et al . , 2002; Hsu et al . , 2008; Van Werven et al . , 2008; Spedale et al . , 2012 ) . NC2 is a heterodimer composed of α and β subunits , which highly resemble histones H2A and H2B , respectively ( Kamada et al . , 2001 ) . We crystallized E . cuniculi Mot1NTD in complex with TBP , NC2 , and a TATA promoter DNA fragment and present here the crystal structure of this complex at 3 . 8 Å resolution along with biochemical , electron microscopy , and cross-linking studies of the full-length Mot1 complex . Our study provides the first pseudoatomic view of a Swi2/Snf2 ATPase in complex with a DNA:protein substrate complex . 
Cyclic peptide natural products have evolved to exploit diverse protein targets , many of which control essential cellular processes . Inspired by a series of cyclic peptides with partially elucidated structures , we designed synthetic variants of ternatin , a cytotoxic and anti-adipogenic natural product whose molecular mode of action was unknown . The new ternatin variants are cytotoxic toward cancer cells , with up to 500-fold greater potency than ternatin itself . Using a ternatin photo-affinity probe , we identify the translation elongation factor-1A ternary complex ( eEF1A·GTP·aminoacyl-tRNA ) as a specific target and demonstrate competitive binding by the unrelated natural products , didemnin and cytotrienin . Mutations in domain III of eEF1A prevent ternatin binding and confer resistance to its cytotoxic effects , implicating the adjacent hydrophobic surface as a functional hot spot for eEF1A modulation . We conclude that the eukaryotic elongation factor-1A and its ternary complex with GTP and aminoacyl-tRNA are common targets for the evolution of cytotoxic natural products .  Macrocyclic natural products are a rich source of biologically active compounds , and identification of their targets can open up new opportunities for therapeutic intervention ( Driggers et al . , 2008; Villar et al . , 2014 ) . Cyclic peptide natural products , especially those containing one or more N-methyl ( or N-alkyl ) amino acids , comprise a privileged class of macrocycles due to their modular structure , relative ease of synthesis , intrinsic cell permeability , and constrained three-dimensional architectures ( Bockus et al . , 2013; Giordanetto and Kihlberg , 2014; Hewitt et al . , 2015 ) . Examples of cyclic peptides with well characterized cellular targets include cyclosporin ( Liu et al . , 1991 ) , trapoxin and romidepsin ( Taunton et al . , 1996; Nakajima et al . , 1998 ) , and cotransin/CAM741 and decatransin ( Besemer et al . , 2005; Garrison et al . , 2005; Junne et al . , 2015 ) . These macrocyclic compounds target conserved eukaryotic proteins that play essential roles in calcium-mediated signaling ( cyclophilin/calcineurin ) , epigenetic regulation ( histone deacetylases ) , and secretory protein biogenesis ( Sec61 translocon ) , respectively . In addition to serving as drugs and potential leads for cancer and immune diseases , these cyclic peptides have proven to be useful as chemical probes , revealing new cellular roles for their target proteins , as well as mechanistic insights into the biochemical processes they orchestrate . Ternatin ( 1 , Figure 1a ) is an N-methylated cyclic heptapeptide that inhibits adipogenesis at low nanomolar concentrations ( EC50 20 nM ) and becomes cytotoxic at ten-fold higher concentrations ( Shimokawa et al . , 2008a ) . Previous work established an important role for leucine-4 , as substitution with alanine ( ternatin-4-Ala , 2 ) abolished biological activity ( Shimokawa et al . , 2008b ) . Motivating the current study , ternatin's molecular target and mechanism of action were completely unknown . While searching for cyclic peptides that , like ternatin , incorporate a β-hydroxy leucine , we found a patent application that describes partially elucidated structures of five related cyclic heptapeptides isolated from an Aspergillus fungus in Malaysia ( Blunt et al . , 2010 ) . All five compounds were reported to be cytotoxic to cancer cells in the picomolar to low nanomolar range ( IC50 0 . 1–24 nM vs HCT116 , MCF7 , and P388 cells ) . One of the more potent congeners , termed ‘A3’ , is shown in Figure 1a . Although only 4 out of 11 stereocenters in A3 were assigned , we were able to map the amino acid sequence , stereochemistry , and N-methylation pattern directly onto the structure of ternatin . The apparent structural similarity to ternatin was not mentioned in the patent application . 10 . 7554/eLife . 10222 . 003Figure 1 . New ternatin variants inspired by Aspergillus-derived cyclic peptides . ( a ) Design of ternatin variants 3 and 4 , based on the partially elucidated structure of A3 . ( b ) Effect of cyclic peptides 1–4 ( three-fold dilutions ) on HCT116 cell proliferation over 72 hr . ( c ) Compounds 1 and 4 were tested against a panel of 21 cancer cell lines . Shown is a scatter plot comparing IC50 values of 1 and 4 for each cell line ( Spearman correlation , 0 . 84 , p < 0 . 0001 ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 10222 . 00310 . 7554/eLife . 10222 . 004Figure 1—source data 1 . Antiproliferative activity of 1 and 4 against cancer cell lines . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 10222 . 00410 . 7554/eLife . 10222 . 005Figure 1—figure supplement 1 . Epimers 4 and 4b have similar antiproliferative activity . ( a ) Chemical structure of 4b , containing ( 2S , 4S ) -dehydro-homoleucine . ( b ) Antiproliferative activity of 4 and epimer 4b toward HCT116 colorectal cancer cells ( 4b IC50 7 . 4 ± 1 . 3 nM ) . DOI: http://dx . doi . org/10 . 7554/eLife . 10222 . 005 Based on the potential similarity between A3 and ternatin structures , we hypothesized that replacement of N-Me-Ala-6 and Leu-4 in ternatin with two A3-specific residues – pipecolic acid and dehydro-homoleucine , respectively – would be sufficient to confer increased cytotoxic potency . These considerations led to the design of cyclic peptides 3 and 4 as potential ‘north/south’ hybrids of ternatin and A3 ( Figure 1a ) . Compound 3 differs from ternatin only at position 6 , whereas 4 additionally has dehydro-homoleucine at position 4 . Here , we demonstrate that ternatin and its structural variants inhibit cellular protein synthesis , with compound 4 showing the greatest potency . We further identify the elongation factor-1A ternary complex ( eEF1A·GTP·aminoacyl-tRNA ) as a direct target of ternatin-related cyclic peptides . This family of N-methylated cyclic heptapeptides represents a new structural class of macrocyclic elongation factor-1A inhibitors . 
Mutations in the inositol 5-phosphatase OCRL cause Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease . Although OCRL , a direct clathrin interactor , is recruited to late-stage clathrin-coated pits , clinical manifestations have been primarily attributed to intracellular sorting defects . Here we show that OCRL loss in Lowe syndrome patient fibroblasts impacts clathrin-mediated endocytosis and results in an endocytic defect . These cells exhibit an accumulation of clathrin-coated vesicles and an increase in U-shaped clathrin-coated pits , which may result from sequestration of coat components on uncoated vesicles . Endocytic vesicles that fail to lose their coat nucleate the majority of the numerous actin comets present in patient cells . SNX9 , an adaptor that couples late-stage endocytic coated pits to actin polymerization and which we found to bind OCRL directly , remains associated with such vesicles . These results indicate that OCRL acts as an uncoating factor and that defects in clathrin-mediated endocytosis likely contribute to pathology in patients with OCRL mutations .  Reversible phosphorylation of the inositol ring of phosphatidylinositol at the 3 , 4 and 5 position generates seven phosphoinositide species , which play critical regulatory roles in cell physiology via their property to control interactions at the cytosolic surface of membranes . Phosphoinositide levels are dynamically and spatially regulated by kinases and phosphatases , establishing a code of membrane identity ( Di Paolo and De Camilli , 2006; Vicinanza et al . , 2008; Balla , 2013 ) . The human genome contains 10 genes encoding inositol 5-phosphatases , a group of enzymes that dephosphorylate the inositol ring at the 5 position , nine of which act on inositol phospholipids ( Dyson et al . , 2012; Pirruccello and De Camilli , 2012 ) . Mutations in one such gene , OCRL , give rise to Oculo-Cerebro-Renal syndrome of Lowe ( Lowe syndrome ) and type 2 Dent's disease , two X-linked diseases ( Attree et al . , 1992; Hoopes et al . , 2005 ) . Lowe syndrome is characterized by congenital cataracts , renal proximal tubule dysfunction , cognitive disabilities and developmental delay ( Delleman et al . , 1977; Kenworthy and Charnas , 1995; Böckenhauer et al . , 2008 ) . Patients with Dent's disease exhibit similar proximal tubule defects but no , or only mild , additional clinical defects ( Bökenkamp et al . , 2009; Shrimpton et al . , 2009 ) . OCRL has a modular structure that is comprised of an N-terminal PH domain ( Mao et al . , 2009 ) followed in sequence by an unstructured amino acid stretch , the 5-phosphatase domain , an ASPM-SPD2-Hydin ( ASH ) domain and a catalytically-inactive RhoGAP-like domain ( Ponting , 2006; Erdmann et al . , 2007 ) . OCRL is expressed in all tissues and has a broad subcellular distribution , which is mediated by interactions with proteins that control membrane traffic and the actin cytoskeleton . These include clathrin-heavy chain , the clathrin adaptor AP-2 , Rab and Rho family GTPases and the endosomal adaptors APPL1 and Ses1/2 ( Ungewickell et al . , 2004; Choudhury et al . , 2005 , 2009; Shin et al . , 2005; Hyvola et al . , 2006; Lichter-Konecki et al . , 2006; Erdmann et al . , 2007; Fukuda et al . , 2008; Swan et al . , 2010; Dambournet et al . , 2011; Noakes et al . , 2011; Pirruccello et al . , 2011 ) . Consistent with such interactions , OCRL has been localized to the Golgi complex , to a variety of endosomal compartments as well as to clathrin-coated pits ( Olivos-Glander et al . , 1995; Dressman et al . , 2000; Ungewickell et al . , 2004; Choudhury et al . , 2005; Faucherre et al . , 2005; Hyvola et al . , 2006; Erdmann et al . , 2007 ) . INPP5B , a 5-phosphatase very similar to OCRL , has many of the same properties , but does not bind clathrin and AP-2 , and correspondingly is not localized at endocytic clathrin-coated pits ( Erdmann et al . , 2007; Williams et al . , 2007 ) . PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 and PI ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) P3 , the two preferred substrates of OCRL , are primarily concentrated in the plasma membrane , where they help define its identity . The broad intracellular localization of OCRL may reflect its importance in preventing the build-up of ectopic intracellular pools of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 and PI ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) P3 . Alternatively , OCRL may act on small yet physiologically relevant pools of these phosphoinositides on intracellular membranes . The pathological manifestations of Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease are thought to arise from abnormal protein sorting and membrane recycling ( Erdmann et al . , 2007; Swan et al . , 2010; Vicinanza et al . , 2011; Mehta et al . , 2014 ) , as loss of OCRL would disrupt the appropriate coordination between membrane progression and changes in phosphoinositide composition . One open question is the physiological significance of the localization of OCRL at endocytic clathrin-coated pits . Nucleation and expansion of endocytic clathrin coats requires PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 at the plasma membrane . PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 represents a critical co-receptor for all the clathrin adaptors ( Di Paolo and De Camilli , 2006; Mettlen et al . , 2009; Sun et al . , 2007; Traub , 2009 ) and its levels ( controlled by dynamic turnover ) impact the lifetime of clathrin-coated pits ( Zoncu et al . , 2007; Nakatsu et al . , 2010; Antonescu et al . , 2011 ) . Conversely , coat shedding ( uncoating ) after the endocytic reaction requires PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 dephosphorylation , as first revealed by studies of clathrin-mediated endocytosis in axon terminals ( Cremona et al . , 1999 ) . Absence of synaptojanin 1 , the most abundant 5-phosphatase in the synapse , results in a striking accumulation of clathrin-coated vesicles ( Cremona et al . , 1999; Harris et al . , 2000; Verstreken et al . , 2003; Milosevic et al . , 2011 ) . There is also evidence that PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 dephosphorylation may assist in the fission reaction of endocytosis ( Stefan et al . , 2002; Rusk et al . , 2003; Mani et al . , 2007; Sun et al . , 2007; Liu et al . , 2009; Chang-Ileto et al . , 2011 ) . While it has been shown that OCRL has a role in preventing the accumulation of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 on post-endocytic membranes ( Vicinanza et al . , 2011 ) , there is no evidence to date that the absence of OCRL , or defects in OCRL function , impairs clathrin-mediated endocytosis . The initial goal of this study was to gain new insights into the function of OCRL through a global analysis of the OCRL interactome . Such an analysis corroborated evidence for a primary role of OCRL at endocytic clathrin-coated pits as it confirmed clathrin and other endocytic adaptors as OCRL binding partners . In addition , it revealed that SNX9 , a clathrin-binding protein associated with late-stage endocytic clathrin-coated pits , directly binds OCRL . Prompted by these findings , we examined the contribution of OCRL to clathrin-mediated endocytosis in Lowe syndrome patient fibroblasts . We found that the absence of OCRL in patient cells impairs endocytic clathrin coat dynamics and results in an endocytic defect . These cells accumulate clathrin-coated vesicles that fail to loose their coat . Such vesicles nucleate at least a cohort of the intracellular actin comets previously described in Lowe syndrome patient cells ( Suchy and Nussbaum , 2002; Allen , 2003; Hayes et al . , 2009; Cui et al . , 2010; Dambournet et al . , 2011; Vicinanza et al . , 2011 ) . Our findings suggest that OCRL participates in uncoating and thus facilitates the recycling of endocytic factors , a process required for the normal progression of endocytosis . Defects in clathrin-mediated endocytosis resulting from the lack of OCRL may play a role in the clinical manifestations of Lowe syndrome and Dent's disease . 
Aberrant activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling plays an unequivocal role in colorectal cancer , but identification of effective Wnt inhibitors for use in cancer remains a tremendous challenge . New insights into the regulation of this pathway could reveal new therapeutic point of intervention , therefore are greatly needed . Here we report a novel FAK/PYK2/GSK3βY216/β-catenin regulation axis: FAK and PYK2 , elevated in adenomas in APCmin/+ mice and in human colorectal cancer tissues , functioned redundantly to promote the Wnt/β-catenin pathway by phosphorylating GSK3βY216 to reinforce pathway output—β-catenin accumulation and intestinal tumorigenesis . We previously showed that Wnt-induced β-catenin accumulation requires Wnt-induced GSK3β/β-TrCP interaction; the current study revealed that phosphorylation of GSK3βY216 was a molecular determinant of GSK3β recruitment of β-TrCP . Pharmacological inhibition of FAK/PYK2 suppressed adenoma formation in APCmin/+ mice accompanied with reduced intestinal levels of phospho-GSK3βY216 and β-catenin , indicating that FAK/PYK2/GSK3βY216 axis is critical for the activation of Wnt/β-catenin signaling in APC driven intestinal tumorigenesis .  Aberrant activation of the canonical Wnt ( Wnt/β-catenin ) pathway is crucial for many cancer types , especially those of the gastrointestinal tract: genetic alterations in Wnt signaling occur in 93% of human CRCs , among which inactivation of tumor suppressor adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) ( 85% ) and activating mutations of proto-oncogene β-catenin ( 5% ) ( Cancer Genome Atlas Network , 2012 ) are mutually exclusive ( Sparks et al . , 1998 ) . The loss of functional APC results in less efficient GSK3 ( two isoforms in mammals , GSK3α and GSK3β ) -mediated phosphorylation of β-catenin , leading to reduced degradation of β-catenin , thus mimicking Wnt stimulation . Although APC mutation is believed to activate Wnt signaling constitutively , histopathological studies show that only about 50% colon carcinoma cells display homogeneous nuclear β-catenin staining ( Chung et al . , 2001 ) , a surrogate for Wnt signaling activity , indicating that APC mutation alone is not sufficient to cause persistent or full activation of the Wnt pathway in CRC cells , therefore Wnt signaling is regulatable in APC-mutated CRCs . But how Wnt signaling is regulated in intestinal tumorigenesis remains largely undefined . A key feature of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway is the tight control of the abundance of transcription co-activator β-catenin by the β-catenin destruction complex , consisting of GSK3 , casein kinase 1 ( CK1 ) , APC , scaffold protein Axin and β-catenin . In Wnt-off state , the cytosolic level of β-catenin is kept low by its continuous degradation: β-catenin is phosphorylated by GSK3 on serine 33 and 37 and threonine 41 , phosphorylation then triggers β-catenin recruitment of ubiquitin E3 β-TrCP ( β-transducin repeats-containing proteins ) , causing its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation ( Wu and Pan , 2010 ) . In Wnt-on state , Wnt ligand forms a complex with the cell-surface receptor Frizzled and low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein ( LRP ) 5/6 ( Wu and Pan , 2010 ) , and initiates a series of molecular events ultimately causing stabilization of β-catenin by suppressing phosphorylation of β-catenin ( Hernandez et al . , 2012; Kim et al . , 2013 ) as well as β-TrCP-mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of β-catenin ( Li et al . , 2012 ) . Newly synthesized β-catenin then accumulates and enters the nucleus to interact with transcription factors TCF ( T-cell factor ) /LEF ( lymphoid enhancing factor ) to activate transcription of the Wnt target genes ( Li et al . , 2012 ) . How GSK3 is modulated and fine-tuned by Wnt to achieve β-catenin stabilization remains a fundamental question in the field of Wnt signaling , with many puzzles and contradictions . We previously found that Wnt simulation induces monoubiquitination of GSK3β by β-TrCP , which is required for Wnt-induced inhibition of β-catenin recruitment of β-TrCP and subsequent stabilization of β-catenin ( Gao et al . , 2014 ) . This study addressed important questions left unanswered: What are the molecular determinants of GSK3β recruitment of β-TrCP ? β-TrCP is the substrate recruitment module of the SCFβ-TrCP ubiquitin ligase supercomplex , recruitment of β-TrCP to its substrate , for example β-catenin , generally requires substrate phosphorylation ( Cardozo and Pagano , 2004 ) . If this is also true in GSK3β's case , what is the involved phosphorylation site ( s ) ? What are the kinases responsible for catalyzing the phosphorylation ? Is this phosphorylation involved in intestinal tumorigenesis ? Our results indicate that phosphorylation of GSK3βY216 by FAK and PYK2 is a molecular determinant of GSK3β recruitment of β-TrCP , and is required for the activation of the Wnt/β-catenin pathway and crucial for Wnt-driven intestinal tumorigenesis . 
The neural control of transition between posture and movement encompasses the regulation of reflex-stabilizing mechanisms to enable motion . Optimal feedback theory suggests that such transitions require the disengagement of one motor control policy before the implementation of another . To test this possibility , we investigated the continuity of the vestibular control of balance during transitions between quiet standing and locomotion and between two standing postures . Healthy subjects initiated and terminated locomotion or shifted the distribution of their weight between their feet , while exposed to electrical vestibular stimuli ( EVS ) . The relationship between EVS and ground reaction forces was quantified using time-frequency analyses . Discontinuities corresponding to null coherence periods were observed preceding the onset of movement initiation and during the step preceding locomotion termination . These results show humans interrupt the vestibular balance stabilizing mechanisms to transition between motor states , suggesting a discrete change between motor control policies , as predicted by optimal feedback theory .  The initiation of movement from a stable posture is a central issue in neuroscience because of the need to overcome reflex-stabilizing mechanisms to enable motion ( von Holst and Mittelstaedt , 1950 ) . Navigating our world involves frequent transitions between posture ( e . g . quiet stance ) and movement ( e . g . locomotion ) , representing an ideal model to explore this issue . Indeed , balance correcting responses may hinder locomotor initiation and the transitions that are essential to safely navigate our environment ( Ostry and Feldman , 2003 ) . Optimal feedback control theory ( OFC ) ( Todorov and Jordan , 2002; Scott , 2004 ) , a prominent motor control theory , proposes that the brain implements the optimal means of performing a task by adjusting the appropriate feedback gains to reach the goal . Specific postural configurations and movement patterns are considered separate control policies , one of which must be disengaged ( i . e . by decreasing sensory feedback gains ) prior to the engagement of another ( i . e . by adjusting and increasing sensory feedback gains ) ( Cluff and Scott , 2016 ) . In this respect , OFC seems to diverge from other motor control theories , such as referent ( threshold ) control theory ( Asatryan and Feldman , 1965; Ostry and Feldman , 2003 ) . This latter theory suggests that a transition between postures involves a monotonic shift in the referent body orientation ( Feldman et al . , 2011; Mullick et al . , 2018 ) , transforming posture-stabilizing mechanisms into movement-inducing ones . To determine whether transition between motor states is comprised of discrete events or is a continuous process , we examined the temporal dynamics of sensory feedback gains prior to and during the transition between two motor states . Specifically , we examined the contribution of vestibular sensory signals to the control of balance during transition between quiet standing and locomotion as well as between two standing postures . The vestibular system encodes motion of the head in space , and is vital to our ability to maintain stability during both quiet standing and locomotion ( Angelaki and Cullen , 2008; Goldberg et al . , 2012 ) . Vestibular signals influence the activation of muscles engaged in the control of posture . This influence depends on the muscles’ active engagement in balance control , and the alignment of the muscles’ mechanical action with both the plane of instability and the direction of the vestibular disturbance ( Lund and Broberg , 1983; Britton et al . , 1993; Fitzpatrick et al . , 1994; Luu et al . , 2012; Mian and Day , 2014; Forbes et al . , 2016 ) . Contextually-dependent vestibular responses have been observed during both quiet standing ( Lund and Broberg , 1983; Fitzpatrick et al . , 1994; Marsden et al . , 2002; Son et al . , 2008; Luu et al . , 2012; Mian and Day , 2014; Forbes et al . , 2016 ) and locomotion , where the magnitude of vestibular-evoked muscle responses are modulated further during the phase of the gait cycle ( Orlovsky , 1972; Matsuyama and Drew , 2000; Blouin et al . , 2011; Dakin et al . , 2013; Forbes et al . , 2017 ) . The vestibular control of balance during locomotor or posture-to-posture transitions can be monitored by continuously quantifying the magnitude of vestibular-evoked balance responses over the transition . A similar approach has been used previously to monitor the time course of engagement and disengagement of the vestibular control of balance between self- and externally-driven states of balance control ( Luu et al . , 2012 ) . Here , the continuity of the vestibular influence on postural control during transitions was assessed to determine whether a discrete change in balance correcting mechanisms accompanies transitions between two motor states . We hypothesized that a discrete suspension in the vestibular control of balance would occur prior to the transition , due to the disengagement of the current control policy prior to the implementation of the next control policy , as predicted under OFC theory . 
The transcription factor RpaA is the master regulator of circadian transcription in cyanobacteria , driving genome-wide oscillations in mRNA abundance . Deletion of rpaA has no effect on viability in constant light conditions , but renders cells inviable in cycling conditions when light and dark periods alternate . We investigated the mechanisms underlying this viability defect , and demonstrate that the rpaA- strain cannot maintain appropriate energy status at night , does not accumulate carbon reserves during the day , and is defective in transcription of genes crucial for utilization of carbohydrate stores at night . Reconstruction of carbon utilization pathways combined with provision of an external carbon source restores energy charge and viability of the rpaA- strain in light/dark cycling conditions . Our observations highlight how a circadian output pathway controls and temporally coordinates essential pathways in carbon metabolism to maximize fitness of cells facing periodic energy limitations .  Organisms across kingdoms of life have evolved circadian clocks to temporally align biological activities with the diurnal changes in the environment . In the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC7942 , the core circadian oscillator is comprised of the KaiA , KaiB and KaiC proteins ( Nishiwaki et al . , 2007; Rust et al . , 2007 ) that generate oscillations in the phosphorylation state of KaiC . Time information encoded in the phosphorylation state of KaiC is transmitted to the transcription factor RpaA ( Takai et al . , 2006; Taniguchi et al . , 2010; Markson et al . , 2013 ) to generate circadian changes in gene expression ( Markson et al . , 2013 ) . In continuous light , the expression of more than 60% of protein-coding genes in S . elongatus is regulated in a circadian manner ( Vijayan et al . , 2009 ) with two main phases of gene expression: genes peaking at subjective dawn or subjective dusk , where the term ‘subjective’ refers to an internal estimate of time in the absence of external cues . Deletion of rpaA disrupts these rhythms in mRNA abundance and arrests cells in a subjective dawn-like transcriptional state , rendering them unable to switch to a subjective dusk-like expression program ( Markson et al . , 2013 ) . While it is clear that the circadian transcriptional program schedules timing of gene expression when the clock is free-running in the absence of changes in external light , it is unclear how circadian control of gene expression is used under more physiologically relevant conditions when light and dark periods alternate . Exposure to darkness restricts energy availability , creating unique metabolic demands in cyanobacteria which depend on sunlight for energy production through photosynthesis . Strikingly , the rpaA- strain exhibits defects in cell growth and viability in cyclic , but not in constant light environments ( Takai et al . , 2006 ) , suggesting an important role for circadian regulation of gene expression in alternating light/dark cycles . We find that both accumulation and utilization of the carbon reserves required for energy production during periods of darkness are defective in the rpaA- strain , and that correction of these defects restores viability . Our results provide insight into the role of the circadian output pathway in enhancing fitness of cyanobacteria through coordination of central carbon metabolism with the metabolic demands imposed by periodic changes in the external environment . 
Transition metals , such as zinc , are essential micronutrients in all organisms , but also highly toxic in excessive amounts . Heavy-metal transporting P-type ( PIB ) ATPases are crucial for homeostasis , conferring cellular detoxification and redistribution through transport of these ions across cellular membranes . No structural information is available for the PIB-4-ATPases , the subclass with the broadest cargo scope , and hence even their topology remains elusive . Here , we present structures and complementary functional analyses of an archetypal PIB-4-ATPase , sCoaT from Sulfitobacter sp . NAS14-1 . The data disclose the architecture , devoid of classical so-called heavy-metal-binding domains ( HMBDs ) , and provide fundamentally new insights into the mechanism and diversity of heavy-metal transporters . We reveal several novel P-type ATPase features , including a dual role in heavy-metal release and as an internal counter ion of an invariant histidine . We also establish that the turnover of PIB-ATPases is potassium independent , contrasting to many other P-type ATPases . Combined with new inhibitory compounds , our results open up for efforts in for example drug discovery , since PIB-4-ATPases function as virulence factors in many pathogens .  The ability to adapt to environmental changes in heavy-metal levels is paramount for all cells , as these elements are essential for a range of cellular processes and yet toxic at elevated concentrations ( Waldron et al . , 2009; Kozlowski et al . , 2009 ) . Transition metal transporting P-type ( PIB ) ATPase proteins are critical for cellular heavy-metal homeostasis , providing efflux of for example copper , zinc , and cobalt from the intracellular milieu . Indeed , malfunctioning of the human PIB-members , ATP7A and ATP7B , cause the fatal neurological Menkes disease and Wilson disease ( Bull et al . , 1993; Vulpe et al . , 1993 ) . The PIB-ATPases belong to the P-type ATPase superfamily of integral membrane proteins , which exploit energy from ATP hydrolysis for transport of cargo across cellular membranes . These proteins share an overall mechanism described by the so-called Post-Albers cycle ( Albers et al . , 1963; Post and Sen , 1965 ) , as established by decades of structural and functional investigations of primarily Ca2+- , Na+/K+- , and H+-specific P-type ATPases ( Toyoshima et al . , 2000; Toyoshima and Nomura , 2002; Toyoshima et al . , 2004; Olesen et al . , 2004; Olesen et al . , 2007; Winther et al . , 2013; Toyoshima et al . , 2013; Morth et al . , 2007; Shinoda et al . , 2009 ) . In summary , four cornerstone states , E1–E1P–E2P–E2 , provide alternating access and affinity for the transported ions ( and counterions , if present ) . Inward facing ( e . g . cytosolic ) E1 and outward facing ( e . g . extracellular ) E2P conformations are coupled to ATP-dependent phosphorylation ( yielding ion-occluded E1P ) and dephosphorylation ( to occluded E2 ) of an invariant catalytical aspartate , respectively . PIB-ATPases are subdivided into groups based on conserved sequence motifs and the selectivity towards transported transition metal ions ( Smith et al . , 2014; Argüello , 2003; Zielazinski et al . , 2012; Zhitnitsky and Lewinson , 2014 ) . Whereas Cu+- and Zn2+-transporting PIB-1 and PIB-2 ATPases are relatively well characterized , little is known regarding the PIB-4 proteins , which comprise some of the simplest and shortest proteins within the entire P-type ATPase superfamily ( Smith et al . , 2014 ) . They are present in plants , archaea , and prokaryotes , and have been assigned a role as virulence factors in pathogens , as for example the PIB-4-ATPase MtCtpD is required for tuberculosis infections ( Sassetti and Rubin , 2003; Joshi et al . , 2006 ) , and therefore represent attractive targets for novel antibiotics . The PIB-4-ATPases are classically referred to as cobalt transporters . However , the metal specificity of the PIB-4-ATPases remains elusive as some members have a confirmed cobalt specificity , while others seemingly have broader or altered ion transport profiles , also transporting ions such as Zn2+ , Ni2+ , Cu+ , and even Ca2+ ( Zielazinski et al . , 2012; Raimunda et al . , 2012; Moreno et al . , 2008; Scherer and Nies , 2009; Seigneurin-Berny et al . , 2006 ) . Thus , the PIB-4-ATPases appear to have the widest scope of transported ions of the PIB-ATPases , and it is possible that further subclassification principles and sequence motifs will be identified . Due to the broad ion transport range , they have been proposed to serve as multifunctional emergency pumps that can be exploited under extreme environmental stress to maintain heavy-metal homeostasis ( Smith et al . , 2017 ) . Hitherto , the available high-resolution structural information of full-length PIB-ATPases is limited to two structures each of ion-free conformations of the Cu+-transporting PIB-1-ATPase from Legionella pneumophila ( LpCopA ) ( Gourdon et al . , 2011b; Wang et al . , 2014 ) , and the Zn2+-transporting PIB-2-ATPase from Shigella sonnei ( SsZntA ) ( Wang et al . , 2014 ) . Thus , the principal architecture of the PIB-4-ATPases remains debated , as sequence analyses have proposed different topologies for the N-terminus: with or without ( 1 ) the so-called HMBDs , and ( 2 ) the first two transmembrane helices , MA and MB ( Smith et al . , 2014; Andersson et al . , 2014; Rosenzweig and Argüello , 2012; Drees et al . , 2015 ) , which both are present in other PIB-ATPases ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1a ) . These represent structural features that have been suggested to be important for ion-uptake and/or regulation in other PIB-ATPases ( Gourdon et al . , 2011b; Wang et al . , 2014; González-Guerrero and Argüello , 2008; Mattle et al . , 2013 ) , raising questions if similar levels of protein control are absent or replaced in the PIB-4 group . In addition , despite a shared overall architecture , the PIB-1 and PIB-2 structures suggested significantly different types of entry and exit pathways , hinting at unique translocation mechanisms for each PIB group ( Sitsel et al . , 2015 ) . However , it remains unknown if similar molecular adaptions have taken place in PIB-4-ATPases to handle the unique array of cargos . To address these fundamental questions , we determined structures of a PIB-4-ATPase in different states and validated our findings using in vitro functional characterization . 
In mammals , numerous autosomal genes are subject to mitotically stable monoallelic expression ( MAE ) , including genes that play critical roles in a variety of human diseases . Due to challenges posed by the clonal nature of MAE , very little is known about its regulation; in particular , no molecular features have been specifically linked to MAE . In this study , we report an approach that distinguishes MAE genes in human cells with great accuracy: a chromatin signature consisting of chromatin marks associated with active transcription ( H3K36me3 ) and silencing ( H3K27me3 ) simultaneously occurring in the gene body . The MAE signature is present in ∼20% of ubiquitously expressed genes and over 30% of tissue-specific genes across cell types . Notably , it is enriched among key developmental genes that have bivalent chromatin structure in pluripotent cells . Our results open a new approach to the study of MAE that is independent of polymorphisms , and suggest that MAE is linked to cell differentiation .  A variety of genetic and epigenetic factors affect the relative expression levels of the two copies of each given gene in diploid cells . In addition to cis- and trans-regulatory variation ( Gilad et al . , 2008 ) , there are at least three major kinds of non-Mendelian phenomena that control allele-specific expression in mammals . One is the X chromosome inactivation ( Lyon , 1961 ) : in female embryos , around the time of implantation , about half of the cells choose to inactivate the maternal X , and the rest inactivate the paternal X , affecting most of the X-linked genes ( Carrel and Willard , 2005; Berletch et al . , 2010; Yang et al . , 2010 ) . Another is imprinting: genes such as IGF2 and H19 are expressed either from one allele , either paternal or maternal ( Glaser et al . , 2006 ) . Finally , a significant fraction of mammalian autosomal genes are subject to monoallelic expression ( MAE ) , which reflects a mitotically stable allele-specific expression with different allelic states in clonal lineages . MAE is observed in olfactory receptor genes ( Chess et al . , 1994 ) , as well as genes coding for immunoglobulins and some cytokines ( Pernis et al . , 1965; Bix and Locksley , 1998; Holländer et al . , 1998 ) . Using genome-wide analyses of allele-specific expression , we and others have added a surprisingly large number of the autosomal genes in human and mouse to the MAE class ( Gimelbrant et al . , 2007; Jeffries et al . , 2012; Zwemer et al . , 2012; Li et al . , 2012b ) , including genes implicated in a number of human diseases , such as Alzheimer’s disease ( APP ) ( Bertram and Tanzi , 2012 ) and cancer ( DAPK1 ) ( Raval et al . , 2007 ) . MAE affects about 10% of ∼4000 tested genes in human lymphoblastoid cells ( LCLs ) and about 15% of more than 1300 assessed genes in analogous mouse cells ( Gimelbrant et al . , 2007; Zwemer et al . , 2012 ) . Our growing appreciation of the prevalence of MAE only underscores how little we know about its biology . The only existing , large-scale sets of data are collected in clonal lymphocyte cell lines in vitro . The limited number of analyzed clones is insufficient to generate a complete catalog of MAE genes in that cell type , and little is known about the prevalence of MAE in other cell types . Virtually nothing is understood about the establishment of MAE during development and differentiation . Mechanistically , allelic choice has been linked to changes in chromatin states in some special cases: imprinting ( Wen et al . , 2008 ) , olfactory receptor gene choice ( Magklara et al . , 2011 ) , and immunoglobulin-kappa gene rearrangement ( Farago et al . , 2012 ) . In contrast , for hundreds of other autosomal MAE genes , no molecular features have been associated with establishment and maintenance of allelic choice . Similarly , there is no general understanding of MAE’s function . A major technical bottleneck in addressing these questions is the clonal nature of MAE ( Figure1—figure supplement 1 ) . Like X inactivation , MAE is masked in polyclonal samples , and obtaining monoclonal cell populations is challenging for most tissue types , particularly so in vivo . Moreover , genome-wide methods are limited by the availability of polymorphisms . In this study , we report a fundamentally new approach to the detection of monoallelic expression . In contrast to other methods , it does not require any allele-specific information , instead relying on a specific chromatin pattern as a proxy for MAE . We use this approach to address questions about MAE’s prevalence , development , and function . 
Ring-forming AAA+ chaperones exert ATP-fueled substrate unfolding by threading through a central pore . This activity is potentially harmful requiring mechanisms for tight repression and substrate-specific activation . The AAA+ chaperone ClpC with the peptidase ClpP forms a bacterial protease essential to virulence and stress resistance . The adaptor MecA activates ClpC by targeting substrates and stimulating ClpC ATPase activity . We show how ClpC is repressed in its ground state by determining ClpC cryo-EM structures with and without MecA . ClpC forms large two-helical assemblies that associate via head-to-head contacts between coiled-coil middle domains ( MDs ) . MecA converts this resting state to an active planar ring structure by binding to MD interaction sites . Loss of ClpC repression in MD mutants causes constitutive activation and severe cellular toxicity . These findings unravel an unexpected regulatory concept executed by coiled-coil MDs to tightly control AAA+ chaperone activity .  AAA+ ( ATPase associated with a variety of cellular activities ) proteins control a multitude of essential cellular activities by converting the energy derived from ATP hydrolysis into a mechanical force to remodel bound substrates ( Hanson and Whiteheart , 2005 ) . They are key players in protein quality control by targeting misfolded and aggregated proteins to degrading and refolding pathways . ClpB/Hsp104 reactivates aggregated proteins in concert with a cognate Hsp70 system ( Doyle et al . , 2013; Mogk et al . , 2015 ) . Other AAA+ proteins ( e . g . ClpX , Rpt1-6 ) associate with peptidases ( e . g . ClpP , 20S proteasome ) to form AAA+ proteases , feeding protein substrates into associated proteolytic chambers for degradation ( Collins and Goldberg , 2017; Baker and Sauer , 2012 ) . The unfolding activity of AAA+ proteins can , however , also be deleterious to cells , in particular if linked to protein degradation , and therefore needs to be tightly controlled . Accordingly , loss of the control mechanisms of AAA+ protein activity in mutant proteins can lead to cell death ( Oguchi et al . , 2012; Schirmer et al . , 2004; Lipińska et al . , 2013 ) . Controlling substrate selectivity and AAA+ protein activity is therefore crucial to prevent deleterious activities . This task is frequently executed by adapter proteins that select substrates but can also regulate the ATPase activity of AAA+ proteins and couple substrate delivery to ATPase activation ( Oguchi et al . , 2012; Schlothauer et al . , 2003 ) . Activity control and adaptor action requires the ATPase activity to be repressed in the ground state , which is key to AAA+ chaperone mode of action . Repression can be achieved by regulatory coiled-coil domains inserted into an AAA module . In the ClpB/Hsp104 disaggregase a long coiled-coil middle domain ( MD ) , consisting of two wings , is forming a repressing belt around the AAA ring to reduce ATPase activity ( Carroni et al . , 2014; Heuck et al . , 2016 ) . Adjacent MDs bind to each other by head-to-tail interactions keeping the regulatory domains in place . ATPase repression is relieved by MD dissociation and binding to Hsp70 adaptors that prevent reassociation of MDs with the ClpB/Hsp104 ring ( Oguchi et al . , 2012; Rosenzweig et al . , 2013; Lee et al . , 2013 ) . The bacterial AAA+ chaperone ClpC associates with the peptidase ClpP to form a central proteolytic machinery of Gram-positive bacteria . The ClpC-ClpP machinery acts in regulatory and general proteolysis , controlling multiple cellular pathways and differentiation processes and is crucial for bacterial stress resistance and virulence ( Turgay et al . , 1997; Frees et al . , 2014; Trentini et al . , 2016; Capestany et al . , 2008; Msadek et al . , 1994; Krüger et al . , 1994; Krüger et al . , 2000; Lourdault et al . , 2011 ) . ClpC activity crucially relies on cooperation with adaptor proteins including MecA , that target specific substrates while concurrently stimulating ClpC ATPase activity ( Schlothauer et al . , 2003; Turgay et al . , 1997; Mei et al . , 2009; Turgay et al . , 1998 ) . MecA binds to N-terminal and middle domains of each ClpC subunit forming a separate layer on top of the ClpC AAA ring ( Wang et al . , 2011 ) . How ClpC is kept inactive in adaptor absence , and how the adaptor activates the ATPase is largely unknown . Furthermore , ClpC harbors a coiled-coil MD consisting only of a single wing , as opposed to the two-wing MD of ClpB/Hsp104 . A potential regulatory function of the ClpC MD has not been investigated , but its smaller size as compared to the ClpB/Hsp104 MD implies it must act differently if involved in ClpC activity control . Understanding ClpC regulation is particularly relevant as AAA+ protease machines including ClpC have attracted considerable attention as targets for antibacterial action in recent years ( Brötz-Oesterhelt and Sass , 2014 ) . Overruling AAA+ protease control by small molecules can lead to constitutive uncontrolled and toxic activation as best exemplified by acyldepsipeptide antibiotics of the ADEP class targeting the ClpP peptidase . ADEP-activated ClpP causes aberrant protein degradation and even allows for eradication of Staphylococcus aureus persister cells ( Conlon et al . , 2013; Brötz-Oesterhelt et al . , 2005; Kirstein et al . , 2009 ) . Understanding ClpC activity control therefore might open new avenues for antibiotics development . Here , we report on an unexpected mode of AAA+ chaperone control involving transition between an inactive resting state and a functional hexamer as revealed by determining the cryoEM-structures of S . aureus ClpC in absence and presence of MecA . The ClpC resting state is composed of two helical ClpC assemblies stabilized by head-to-head MD interactions . MecA prevents MD interactions and thereby converts ClpC into a canonical and active hexamer . 
How stem cells specified during development keep their non-differentiated quiescent state , and how they are reactivated , remain poorly understood . Here , we applied a Drosophila model to follow in vivo behavior of adult muscle precursors ( AMPs ) , the transient fruit fly muscle stem cells . We report that emerging AMPs send out thin filopodia that make contact with neighboring muscles . AMPs keep their filopodia-based association with muscles throughout their dormant state but also when they start to proliferate , suggesting that muscles could play a role in AMP reactivation . Indeed , our genetic analyses indicate that muscles send inductive dIlp6 signals that switch the Insulin pathway ON in closely associated AMPs . This leads to the activation of Notch , which regulates AMP proliferation via dMyc . Altogether , we report that Drosophila AMPs display homing behavior to muscle niche and that the niche-driven Insulin-Notch-dMyc cascade plays a key role in setting the activated state of AMPs .  Stem cells exhibit a remarkable capacity to keep a quiescent undifferentiated state , and then , once activated , contribute to developmental growth or damage tissue regeneration . Over the years , lineage tracing and serial transplantation assays have confirmed the presence of stem cell populations in many tissues in both invertebrate and vertebrate organisms ( for reviews , see [Voog and Jones , 2010; Simons and Clevers , 2011; Jiang and Edgar , 2012] ) . These populations include multipotent cells , such as hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) which can give rise to a broad range of cell types ( Marquez-Curtis et al . , 2011 ) , and committed precursors , such as the satellite cells required for postnatal growth and the repair of a specific tissue , i . e . skeletal muscle ( Buckingham and Montarras , 2008 ) . Importantly , stem cell activity and capacity to maintain tissue homeostasis depend on a specialized microenvironment called the niche . The stem cell niche was first documented in Drosophila ( Xie and Spradling , 2000 ) but it is now widely accepted that all adult stem cells reside within a niche that retains them and regulates their behavior ( Voog and Jones , 2010 ) . Niches range in size and complexity ( Morrison and Spradling , 2008 ) . They may house a single stem cell , like the follicle stem cell ( FSC ) niche ( Nystul and Spradling , 2007 ) , or more than 10 germ stem cells ( GSCs ) , like the testis niche ( Wallenfang et al . , 2006 ) . Niches may also occupy a single spatially invariant location throughout adult life ( e . g . the GSC niche in Drosophila ) , or instead form a complex system of multiple niches distributed throughout tissues ( e . g . HSC niches ) ( for a review , see Morrison and Spradling , 2008 ) . Like HSCs , which are able to reside in alternative niches , muscle stem cells ( satellite cells ) are scattered under the basal laminae of myofibers , which host them and contribute to their niche ( Collins et al . , 2005; Kuang et al . , 2007 ) . However , the cellular and molecular mechanisms that control niche occupancy by stem cells remain poorly understood . Recent work on myogenic progenitor cells , which ensure developmental muscle growth but also provide a source of cells that adopt satellite cell position , has shed new light on this issue ( Bröhl et al . , 2012 ) . It has been shown that Notch signaling is required for the homing of emerging satellite cells by stimulating them to produce basal lamina , thus promoting their adhesion to myofibers ( Bröhl et al . , 2012 ) . Crucially , if the homing process is impaired , satellite cells are unable to receive inductive signals and thus efficiently contribute to muscle growth and regeneration . This makes gaining further insight into the homing of stem cells and their responsiveness to the signals emanating from the niche a key challenge . We have previously characterized the Drosophila muscle stem cells called adult muscle precursors ( AMPs ) that emerge during mid-embryogenesis and express muscle progenitor-specific markers such as the b-HLH transcription factor Twist ( Figeac et al . , 2007 , 2010 ) . The AMPs lie dormant during embryonic and most of larval life but once activated they will proliferate to provide a source of myoblasts that ensure adult muscle growth and the regeneration of a subset of thoracic flight muscles . We also followed AMP cells in vivo using membrane-targeted GFP , and found that AMPs send out long cellular processes , and are interconnected ( Figeac et al . , 2010 ) . Interestingly , the capacity to send out cytoplasmic extensions and make interconnections has also been documented for quiescent satellite cells sited on myofibers ( Tavi et al . , 2010 ) . All these features make AMPs similar to vertebrate satellite cells , prompting us to analyze their homing behavior and the mechanisms that drive their activation and exit from the dormant state . Our data show that emerging AMPs , in addition to long cellular projections , also send out thin filopodia that link them to the neighboring muscles , which behave as AMPs cell niche . We provide genetic evidence that muscles act via dIlp6 to switch the insulin pathway ON in AMPs and initiate AMP reactivation . This leads to a Deltex-involving activation of Notch , which positively regulates AMP proliferation via dMyc . 
Certain neuron types fire spontaneously at high rates , an ability that is crucial for their function in brain circuits . The spontaneously active GABAergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars reticulata ( SNr ) , a major output of the basal ganglia , provide tonic inhibition of downstream brain areas . A depolarizing 'leak' current supports this firing pattern , but its molecular basis remains poorly understood . To understand how SNr neurons maintain tonic activity , we used single-cell RNA sequencing to determine the transcriptome of individual mouse SNr neurons . We discovered that SNr neurons express the sodium leak channel , NALCN , and that SNr neurons lacking NALCN have impaired spontaneous firing . In addition , NALCN is involved in the modulation of excitability by changes in glycolysis and by activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors . Our findings suggest that disruption of NALCN could impair the basal ganglia circuit , which may underlie the severe motor deficits in humans carrying mutations in NALCN .  Some neurons are capable of continuously firing action potentials in the complete absence of synaptic input ( Häusser et al . , 2004 ) . This spontaneous activity is established by the intrinsic membrane properties that set the neuronal membrane potential and support repeated firing of action potentials ( Bean , 2007 ) . Electrophysiological studies of spontaneously active neurons have frequently reported the presence of a tonic current that maintains these neurons at a more depolarized membrane potential and likely allows them to continuously fire action potentials ( Atherton and Bevan , 2005; Raman et al . , 2000; Jackson et al . , 2004; Taddese and Bean , 2002; Khaliq and Bean , 2010 ) . This current , often referred to as a 'leak' or 'background' current , has characteristics of a nonselective cation current – it is sodium-dependent and has a reversal potential close to 0 mV . However , the molecular identity of the channel ( s ) that carry this leak current in many spontaneously firing neurons remains an open question . In the substantia nigra pars reticulata ( SNr ) , GABAergic neurons fire spontaneously at relatively high firing rates , typically 30 spikes per second ( Sanderson et al . , 1986; Gulley et al . , 1999; Maurice et al . , 2003; Deransart et al . , 2003 ) . This spontaneous firing is necessary for the tonic inhibition of downstream targets of the SNr and thus critical for the function of the basal ganglia ( Chevalier and Deniau , 1990; Hikosaka , 2007 ) . SNr neurons have a leak current ( a sodium-dependent tonic current ) that maintains their membrane potential sufficiently depolarized to allow for spontaneous triggering of action potentials in the absence of any synaptic input ( Atherton and Bevan , 2005; Zhou and Lee , 2011 ) . It has been suggested that a member of the Transient Receptor Potential ( TRP ) channel family , TRPC3 , is the basis for the tonic depolarizing current in SNr neurons ( Zhou et al . , 2008 ) . However , we previously found that the spontaneous firing of SNr neurons was unaffected by genetic deletion of TRPC3 , arguing against this possibility ( Lutas et al . , 2014 ) . We also previously reported that the tonic depolarizing current in SNr neurons is decreased in response to metabolic inhibition , resulting in slowed firing ( Lutas et al . , 2014 ) . Here we report our efforts to identify the nonselective cation channel ( NSCC ) that supports the spontaneous firing of SNr neurons and determine the molecular identity of the glycolysis-sensitive NSCC . We used single-cell RNA sequencing to determine the gene expression profile of SNr neurons and , specifically , the relative expression levels of NSCCs . We found that the sodium leak channel , NALCN ( Lu et al . , 2007 ) , was the highest expressed NSCC in SNr neurons . Electrophysiological experiments using pharmacological inhibitors supported a critical function of NALCN in maintaining firing , and conditional knockout of NALCN in SNr neurons impaired firing , confirming its importance . In addition , we found that the loss of NALCN significantly impaired modulation of SNr firing by glycolytic inhibition and by muscarinic metabotropic receptor activation , indicating that NALCN was involved in the regulation of SNr neuron excitability . Recent studies have reported that NALCN is expressed by other neurons in the brain ( Lu et al . , 2007; Flourakis et al . , 2015; Goldberg et al . , 2012 ) , indicating that our findings in the SNr may be more broadly applicable . Furthermore , our results identify key cellular responses that are impaired in the absence of NALCN , and may have therapeutic value as human mutations in NALCN lead to severe motor and cognitive deficits ( Chong et al . , 2015; Aoyagi et al . , 2015; Al-Sayed et al . , 2013; Köroğlu et al . , 2013; Fukai et al . , 2016 ) . 
Antibiotics from few culturable microorganisms have saved millions of lives since the 20th century . But with resistance formation , these compounds become increasingly ineffective , while the majority of microbial and with that chemical compound diversity remains inaccessible for cultivation and exploration . Culturing recalcitrant bacteria is a stochastic process . But conventional methods are limited to low throughput . By increasing ( i ) throughput and ( ii ) sensitivity by miniaturization , we innovate microbiological cultivation to comply with biological stochasticity . Here , we introduce a droplet-based microscale cultivation system , which is directly coupled to a high-throughput screening for antimicrobial activity prior to strain isolation . We demonstrate that highly parallelized in-droplet cultivation starting from single cells results in the cultivation of yet uncultured species and a significantly higher bacterial diversity than standard agar plate cultivation . Strains able to inhibit intact reporter strains were isolated from the system . A variety of antimicrobial compounds were detected for a selected potent antibiotic producer .  The microbial diversity in environmental habitats provides a rich resource for medically relevant substances ( Moloney , 2016 ) , and fortunately , it is far from being exhaustively mapped ( Lloyd et al . , 2018 ) . Only 1–15% of the bacterial diversity are cultivable under standard laboratory conditions ( Lok , 2015 ) , which promises further revolutionizing compounds to be discovered in the remaining unexplored majority . The question is: How can we unlock the hidden biosynthetic potential of so far uncultured microbes ? Initial continuous propagation of cultures is mandatory to study the chemical and biological characteristics of their respective natural products . Thus , elucidation and application of appropriate growth conditions are required for cell replication of species that are recalcitrant to cultivation . To narrow the gap between the naturally occurring complexity of microbial communities and the limited diversity of culture collections , several new techniques have been developed . For instance , the concentration and composition of media have been adapted for a large number of oligotrophic uncultured species ( Olsen and Bakken , 1987; Janssen et al . , 2002; Sait et al . , 2002; Joseph et al . , 2003; Stevenson et al . , 2004; da Rocha et al . , 2010 ) . Other techniques mimic the conditions in situ in more detail by supplying extracts derived from the environment containing unspecified mixtures of macro- and micronutrients and other growth factors ( Olsen and Bakken , 1987; Rappé et al . , 2002; Zengler et al . , 2002; Sipkema et al . , 2011 ) . The most advanced development in this direction is to provide direct contact with the environment ( Ben-Dov et al . , 2009; Kaeberlein et al . , 2002; Bollmann et al . , 2007; Sizova et al . , 2012 ) , which proved highly productive in culturing species regarded as unculturable . A complementary trend is the miniaturization of culture vessels to save material and time while increasing throughput ( Zengler et al . , 2002; Ben-Dov et al . , 2009; Jiang et al . , 2016a; Terekhov et al . , 2017; Cao et al . , 2017; Watterson et al . , 2020; Villa et al . , 2020; Martin et al . , 2003; Ingham et al . , 2007; Nichols et al . , 2010; Gao et al . , 2013; Jung et al . , 2014; Ma et al . , 2014a; Ma et al . , 2014b; Tandogan et al . , 2014 ) . Thereby , the chance of finding non-dormant , culturable variants of naturally occurring species , as stochastic events ( Epstein , 2013 ) , rises . These microscale culture techniques enable partitioning of complex bacterial communities at the single-cell level , which allows various species to grow at their own speed without competition for space or nutrients . At the same time , the miniaturized vessels that confine single cells are small and densely packed to establish a highly parallelized cultivation . The reported microscale approaches can be divided into methods that arrange the compartments into arrays ( Martin et al . , 2003; Ingham et al . , 2007; Nichols et al . , 2010; Gao et al . , 2013; Jung et al . , 2014; Ma et al . , 2014a; Ma et al . , 2014b; Tandogan et al . , 2014; Jiang et al . , 2016a; Cao et al . , 2017 ) and techniques that keep the compartments not fixed to positions but rather mobile within the bulk population ( Zengler et al . , 2002; Ben-Dov et al . , 2009; Terekhov et al . , 2017; Watterson et al . , 2020; Villa et al . , 2020 ) . The clear advantage of arrays is the possibility to address the same culture several times since the compartments are identified by their coordinates . However , array technologies also come with inherent disadvantages . First , space is lost by introducing a distance between array positions and omitting the expansion in the third dimension . Arrays , like microtiter plates or miniaturized versions thereof , have so far only vessels arranged in a 2D plane . Second , fast automation is simpler with moving compartments and the continuous flow of compartments can be easily adjusted in speed and direction ( Vincent et al . , 2010 ) . Consequently , without arrays , higher absolute numbers of compartments can be generated and processed per unit of time . We propose an integrated cultivation and screening strategy based on surfactant-stabilized microfluidic droplets in a perfluorinated oil phase . Microfluidic droplets provide a genotype–phenotype linkage also for secreted products , meaning that those compounds stay confined with the cell from which they originated . Droplets can be stored in bulk , allowing to generate and incubate large droplet populations under controlled aerobic conditions . Furthermore , we implemented a high-throughput screening for antimicrobial products using bacterial reporter strains in droplets ( Mahler et al . , 2018 ) . We verified our cultivation and screening strategy by culturing a complex bacterial community derived from a soil sample in a growth substrate designed accordingly and compared the cultivation outcome to classical agar plate cultivation for the same sample . For one of the isolates that showed antimicrobial activity in the droplet screening , we identified and characterized the secreted metabolites . 
Tuberculous meningitis has high mortality , linked to excessive inflammation . However , adjunctive anti-inflammatory corticosteroids reduce mortality by only 30% , suggesting that inflammatory pathophysiology causes only a subset of deaths . In Vietnam , the survival benefit of anti-inflammatory corticosteroids was most pronounced in patients with a C/T promoter variant in the leukotriene A4 hydrolase ( LTA4H ) gene encoding an enzyme that regulates inflammatory eicosanoids . LTA4H TT patients with increased expression had increased survival , consistent with corticosteroids benefiting individuals with hyper-inflammatory responses . However , an Indonesia study did not find an LTA4H TT genotype survival benefit . Here using Bayesian methods to analyse both studies , we find that LTA4H TT genotype confers survival benefit that begins early and continues long-term in both populations . This benefit is nullified in the most severe cases with high early mortality . LTA4H genotyping together with disease severity assessment may target glucocorticoid therapy to patients most likely to benefit from it .  Tuberculous meningitis ( TBM ) is the most severe form of tuberculosis . Despite effective antimicrobial therapy , it results in 20–25% mortality in HIV-negative individuals and ~40% mortality in HIV-positive individuals ( Stadelman et al . , 2020; Thwaites et al . , 2013 ) . A long-standing hypothesis that an excessive intracerebral inflammatory response underlies TBM mortality ( Shane and Riley , 1953 ) led to multiple trials of adjunctive anti-inflammatory treatment with corticosteroids ( e . g . dexamethasone ) ( Prasad et al . , 2016; Wilkinson et al . , 2017 ) . Findings from a randomised controlled trial ( RCT ) in Vietnam that adjunctive dexamethasone improved survival by ~30% led to it becoming standard of care treatment ( Thwaites et al . , 2004 ) . However , the modest benefit of adjunctive dexamethasone treatment suggested a heterogeneity in glucocorticoid-responsiveness ( Donald and Schoeman , 2004; Schoeman and Donald , 2013 ) . Findings in a zebrafish model of TB provided a testable hypothesis for a mechanism underlying this heterogeneity ( Thwaites et al . , 2004; Tobin et al . , 2012; Tobin et al . , 2010 ) . The zebrafish findings suggested that either deficiency or excess of leukotriene A4 hydrolase ( LTA4H ) , a key enzyme that regulates the balance of pro- and anti-inflammatory eicosanoids , increase susceptibility to TBM for opposite reasons - too little or too much inflammation ( Tobin et al . , 2012; Tobin et al . , 2010 ) . It became possible to test the prediction when a common human functional LTA4H promoter variant ( rs17525495 ) was identified comprising a C/T transition that controlled LTA4H expression , with the T allele causing increased expression ( Tobin et al . , 2012 ) . A retrospective analysis of patient LTA4H rs17525495 genotypes in the Vietnam dexamethasone RCT cohort confirmed the prediction ( Thwaites et al . , 2004; Tobin et al . , 2012 ) . Among HIV-negative patients , the survival benefit of dexamethasone was restricted to patients with the hyper-inflammatory TT genotype , with CC patients potentially harmed by this treatment ( Tobin et al . , 2012 ) . These findings supported the model that mortality from TBM was due to two distinct inflammatory states , and that LTA4H genotype might be a critical determinant of inflammation and consequently of the response to adjunctive anti-inflammatory treatment . If true , then personalized genotype-directed adjunctive glucocorticoid treatment would be warranted , with the drug given only to TT patients . This would be particularly important given the possible harm to the hypo-inflammatory CC group , as well as the adverse effects of long-term high dose treatment with a broadly acting immunosuppressant . To further these findings , two new studies of the association of LTA4H genotype with TBM survival in HIV-negative patients were performed in Vietnam and Indonesia , respectively ( Thuong et al . , 2017; van Laarhoven et al . , 2017 ) . Because glucocorticoid adjunctive therapy had become standard of care owing to the benefit observed in the randomised controlled trial ( Thwaites et al . , 2004 ) , all patients received it in both studies . Therefore , the prediction that could be tested was that TT mortality is less than CC+CT mortality . Whereas the Vietnam study confirmed this prediction , the Indonesia study did not . The Vietnam cohort had an overall mortality of 18 . 8% , similar to that reported in the literature ( Stadelman et al . , 2020 ) . A striking feature of the Indonesia cohort was its more than two-fold increased mortality in comparison with the Vietnam cohort . Moreover , most of the Indonesia cohort deaths occurred early with a median time to death of eight days versus 50 days in Vietnam ( Table 1 ) . This high early mortality raised the possibility that the impact of the LTA4H variant differs by disease severity , and may not be relevant in more severe disease ( Fava and Schurr , 2017 ) . If so , then the effects of the LTA4H genotype were being masked by the preponderance of extremely severe cases in the Indonesia cohort ( Fava and Schurr , 2017 ) . Both studies used , as the primary metric of significance testing , Cox regression modelling , an approach that assumes that the ratio of hazard rates between groups is constant throughout the observed period ( Bradburn et al . , 2003; Greenland et al . , 2016 ) . Therefore , this analytical method could miss important differences in these studies of TBM , a disease which can present acutely yet have a prolonged time-course with vastly differing mortality risks over time ( Thuong et al . , 2017; Thwaites et al . , 2013; van Laarhoven et al . , 2017 ) . Moreover , testing the hypothesis that LTA4H effects are limited to specific disease severity grades requires subgroup analysis . The use of frequentist statistics would limit the ability to perform such subgroup analyses because the penalties it sets for multiple comparisons do not reflect real-world situations ( Gelman and Loken , 2013; Smith and Ebrahim , 2002 ) . Bayesian analysis is ideally suited to simultaneously estimate treatment effects in multiple subgroups because it results in different interactions with the number of results obtained which are much less problematic than those arising in frequentist analysis ( Box 1 and Appendix 1 ) . Therefore , we used a Bayesian approach to analyse data from the two cohorts ( Gelman and Loken , 2013; MacKay , 2003; Zampieri et al . , 2020 ) ( Appendix 2 ) . Bayesian analysis also enables the detection of significant differences that might be limited to just a part of the time-course and therefore would allow analysis to be independent of the kinetics of death in the Vietnam and Indonesia cohorts . Medical management decisions are guided by an assessment of the probabilities of outcome . In TBM , the question faced by the clinician is how likely is glucocorticoid therapy going to help or harm a patient . Bayesian paradigms , unlike frequentist ones , understand probability in a real-world way , using it to indicate the plausibility of a particular conclusion ( MacKay , 2003; Zampieri et al . , 2020 ) . Finally , relevant to this re-analysis of completed clinical studies , Bayesian paradigms have less potential for bias arising from post-hoc analysis ( Appendix 1 ) . The severity grade-specific analyses , coupled with temporal analyses made possible by Bayesian methods , reveal that the LTA4H TT genotype is associated with survival in both cohorts . 
Growth cones navigate axonal projection in response to guidance cues . However , it is unclear how they can decide the migratory direction by transducing the local spatial cues into protrusive forces . Here we show that knockout mice of Shootin1 display abnormal projection of the forebrain commissural axons , a phenotype similar to that of the axon guidance molecule netrin-1 . Shallow gradients of netrin-1 elicited highly polarized Pak1-mediated phosphorylation of shootin1 within growth cones . We demonstrate that netrin-1–elicited shootin1 phosphorylation increases shootin1 interaction with the cell adhesion molecule L1-CAM; this , in turn , promotes F-actin–adhesion coupling and concomitant generation of forces for growth cone migration . Moreover , the spatially regulated shootin1 phosphorylation within growth cones is required for axon turning induced by netrin-1 gradients . Our study defines a mechano-effector for netrin-1 signaling and demonstrates that shootin1 phosphorylation is a critical readout for netrin-1 gradients that results in a directional mechanoresponse for axon guidance .  Axon guidance is a critical step for the formation and regeneration of neuronal networks . More than a century ago Ramón y Cajal identified the growth cone at the tip of extending axons , and proposed that it senses extracellular chemical cues and produces force for axon guidance ( Cajal , 1890; Sotelo , 2002; Vitriol and Zheng , 2012 ) . Accumulating evidence indicates that growth cones are indeed guided by extracellular molecules ( Huber et al . , 2003; Lowery and Van Vactor , 2009; Kolodkin and Tessier-Lavigne , 2011 ) and generate traction forces ( Chan and Odde , 2008; Koch et al . , 2012 ) . Furthermore , analyses with microfluidic devices have shown that growth cones can navigate in response to extremely shallow gradients of diffusible and substrate-bound chemical cues in the microenvironment ( Baier and Bonhoeffer , 1992; Rosoff et al . , 2004; Xiao et al . , 2014 ) . Netrin-1 is one of the best-characterized axon guidance molecules ( Ishii et al . , 1992; Serafini et al . , 1994; Lai Wing Sun et al . , 2011 ) . Extracellular gradients of netrin-1 elicit growth cone attraction in vitro ( Kennedy et al . , 1994; Serafini et al . , 1994; Hong et al . , 1999; Bhattacharjee et al . , 2010; Fothergill et al . , 2014 ) . Mice lacking netrin-1 or its receptor deleted in colorectal cancer ( DCC ) show impaired projection and guidance of axons in the ventral spinal commissure and forebrain commissures ( Serafini et al . , 1996; Fazeli et al . , 1997; Bin et al . , 2015; Yung et al . , 2015 ) . The intracellular signaling pathways involved in netrin-1–induced axonal chemoattraction have been extensively analyzed . For example , stimulation of DCC by netrin-1 activates Cdc42 and Rac1 and their downstream kinase Pak1 , thereby inducing growth cone expansion and axon extension ( Li et al . , 2002; Shekarabi and Kennedy , 2002; Shekarabi et al . , 2005; Briançon-Marjollet et al . , 2008; Demarco et al . , 2012 ) . The actin regulatory proteins ENA/VASP and N-WASP are also required for netrin-1–induced growth cone expansion ( Lebrand et al . , 2004; Shekarabi et al . , 2005 ) . In addition , a number of signaling molecules , including phospholipase Cγ , Ca2+ , cAMP , phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase ( PI3K ) , ERK1/2 , focal adhesion kinase ( FAK ) and Src , are reported to be involved in netrin-1–induced axonal chemoattraction ( Song and Poo , 2001; Lowery and Van Vactor , 2009; Lai Wing Sun et al . , 2011; Moore et al . , 2012; Gomez and Letourneau , 2014; Sutherland et al . , 2014 ) . However , despite the significant progress in identifying the signaling pathways , little is known about how the netrin-1 signal , as a spatial cue , is converted into the directional force required for axon guidance . Moreover , a molecular understanding of how shallow gradients of chemical cues are read out to guide axons is lacking ( Quinn and Wadsworth , 2008; Hegemann and Peter , 2017 ) . Shootin1 , recently renamed shootin1a ( Higashiguchi et al . , 2016 ) , is a brain-specific protein involved in axon outgrowth ( Toriyama et al . , 2006; Sapir et al . , 2013 ) . At the leading edge of growth cones , actin filaments ( F-actins ) polymerize and disassemble proximally , thereby undergoing retrograde flow ( Forscher and Smith , 1988; Katoh et al . , 1999 ) . Shootin1a interacts with F-actin retrograde flow via cortactin ( Weed and Parsons , 2001 ) and couples the F-actin flow with extracellular adhesive substrates ( Shimada et al . , 2008; Kubo et al . , 2015 ) through the cell adhesion molecule L1-CAM ( Rathjen and Schachner , 1984; Kamiguchi et al . , 1998 ) . We previously reported that Pak1 ( Manser et al . , 1994 ) , upon activation by netrin-1 , phosphorylates shootin1a ( Toriyama et al . , 2013 ) ; this in turn enhances shootin1a interaction with F-actin flow , thereby producing traction force on the substrate ( Toriyama et al . , 2013; Kubo et al . , 2015 ) . However , whether shootin1a mediates axon guidance in vitro and in vivo remains unknown . In addition , how shootin1a associates with the substrates through L1-CAM is uncharacterized ( Kubo et al . , 2015 ) . Here , we combined gene knockout , protein interaction assays , force microscopy , speckle imaging and microfluidics to define a gradient-reading and mechano-effector machinery for netrin-1–induced axon guidance . We show that shootin1a is expressed at high levels in developing forebrain commissural axons and that Shootin1 knockout mice display abnormal guidance of these axons , a phenotype similar to that of Netrin-1 knockout mice . Notably , very small spatial differences in netrin-1 concentration elicited highly polarized directional phosphorylation of shootin1a within growth cones . Netrin-1–elicited shootin1a phosphorylation promoted direct interaction between shootin1a and L1-CAM , thereby generating traction force for growth cone motility . Furthermore , disturbance of the spatially regulated shootin1a phosphorylation within growth cones inhibited axon turning , but not axon outgrowth , induced by netrin-1 gradients . Our data demonstrate that shootin1a , through its spatially regulated phosphorylation within growth cones , mediates the gradient reading and mechanoresponse for netrin-1–induced axon guidance . 
How hummingbirds hum is not fully understood , but its biophysical origin is encoded in the acoustic nearfield . Hence , we studied six freely hovering Anna’s hummingbirds , performing acoustic nearfield holography using a 2176 microphone array in vivo , while also directly measuring the 3D aerodynamic forces using a new aerodynamic force platform . We corroborate the acoustic measurements by developing an idealized acoustic model that integrates the aerodynamic forces with wing kinematics , which shows how the timbre of the hummingbird’s hum arises from the oscillating lift and drag forces on each wing . Comparing birds and insects , we find that the characteristic humming timbre and radiated power of their flapping wings originates from the higher harmonics in the aerodynamic forces that support their bodyweight . Our model analysis across insects and birds shows that allometric deviation makes larger birds quieter and elongated flies louder , while also clarifying complex bioacoustic behavior .  Birds , bats , and insects flap their wings to generate unsteady aerodynamic forces that lift their body into the air , which enables them to fly . When their flapping wings move through air , they create unsteady pressure fluctuations that radiate outward at the speed of sound . In addition to furnishing flight , pressure waves serve various acoustic communication functions during behavioral displays . Male Drosophila use aerodynamically functional wings to create humming songs near their flapping frequency to increase female receptivity to mating ( von Schilcher , 1976 ) . In a more sophisticated form of courtship behavior , male and female mosquitoes duet at the third harmonic ( multiple ) of their wingbeat frequency ( Cator et al . , 2009 ) . In contrast , pigeons use modified primary feathers that sonate around 1 kHz when they start flapping their wings that incite flock members to fleeing and take-off behavior ( Davis , 1975; Hingee and Magrath , 2009; Niese and Tobalske , 2016; Murray et al . , 2017 ) . Feather sonation during flapping flight may also communicate information like flight speed , location in 3D space , and wingbeat frequency to conspecifics ( Larsson , 2012 ) . Hence , male broad-tailed hummingbirds generate a whistling sound with modified primary feathers in their flapping wings during displays to defend courting territories ( Miller and Inouye , 1983 ) . Silent fliers like owls , on the other hand , suppress the aerodynamic sound generated by their wings to mitigate interference with their hearing and escape prey detection ( Geyer et al . , 2013; Jaworski and Peake , 2020; Kroeger et al . , 1972; Sarradj et al . , 2011; Clark et al . , 2020 ) . Their flapping wings also generate less structural noise ( Clark et al . , 2020 ) because their feathers lack the noisy directional fastening mechanism that locks adjacent flight feathers during wing extension in other bird species ( Matloff et al . , 2020 ) . These diverse adaptations illustrate how a wide range of mechanisms can contribute to the sound that flapping wings generate . Consequently , it is not fully understood how flapping wings generate their characteristic sound—from the mosquito’s buzz , the hummingbird’s hum , to the larger bird’s whoosh . Our physical understanding of how wings generate sound is primarily based on aircraft wing and rotor aeroacoustics ( Brooks and Pope , 1989; Crighton , 1991 ) . In contrast to animals , however , engineered wings do not flap , do not change shape dynamically , are much larger , and operate at much higher speeds ( higher Reynolds numbers ) . They also operate at lower angles of attack to avoid stall , which results in more compact airflow patterns than animals generate in flapping flight ( Ellington et al . , 1996; Dickinson et al . , 1999; Mueller , 2001 ) . Despite these marked differences , rotors and flapping wings have one thing in common: they both revolve around a center pivot . Whereas flapping wings reciprocate along the joint , rotors revolve unidirectionally . The revolution of rotors generates loud tonal noise , because the pressure field they generate rotates in space at the same frequency ( Lighthill , 1954; Lowson , 1965 ) . Similarly , when animals flap their wing back and forth along the shoulder joint during each stroke , they create a high-pressure region below their wing and a low-pressure region above . The pressure differences are associated with the wing’s high lift and drag , respectively ( Sane and Dickinson , 2001; Wu and Sun , 2004 ) . Computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) simulations of flapping insect wings suggest that the acoustic field can be characterized as a dipole at the wingbeat frequency ( Bae and Moon , 2008; Geng et al . , 2017; Seo et al . , 2019 ) . Further , flapping wing pitch reduction ( Nedunchezian et al . , 2018 ) and increased wing flexibility ( Nedunchezian et al . , 2019 ) reduces the simulated nearfield sound pressure level . All these findings point to the potential role of oscillating aerodynamic forces in generating wing hum . Indeed , numerical simulation of the Ffowcs Williams and Hawkings aeroacoustic equation ( Williams and Hawkings , 1969 ) showed that the farfield hum of flapping mosquito wings is primarily driven by aerodynamic force fluctuation ( Seo et al . , 2019 ) . Despite these important advances , in vivo acoustic near-field measurements are lacking . Finally , there is no simple model that can satisfactorily integrate flapping wing kinematics and aerodynamic forces to predict the acoustic near and far field generated by animals across taxa without using computationally expensive fluid dynamic simulations . Hummingbirds are an ideal subject for developing and testing a model of flapping wing hum: their wing kinematics and unsteady aerodynamic forces are very repeatable during hover ( Altshuler and Dudley , 2003; Tobalske et al . , 2007; Ingersoll and Lentink , 2018 ) . Further , hummingbird wing morphology and flight style share similarities with both birds and insects . In addition to high-frequency feather sonations , hummingbirds produce a prominent hum that is qualitatively similar to an insect’s buzz . Earlier aeroacoustics studies of hummingbirds have resolved the farfield acoustic pressure field at a distance greater than 10 or more body lengths away from the hummingbird ( Clark and Mistick , 2018a; Clark , 2008; Clark et al . , 2016; Clark and Mistick , 2018b ) . While this distance relates to how humans perceive and interact with these animals , hummingbirds frequently interact with conspecifics and other animals at more intimate distances—in the acoustic nearfield . Furthermore , wing hum can announce a hummingbird's presence , especially to the opposite sex ( Hunter , 2008 ) . Although their audiogram has yet to be established below 1 kHz ( Pytte et al . , 2004 ) , this and other behavioral evidence suggests hummingbirds may be able to perceive the wing hum from a conspecific . Finally , the hum may reveal the hummingbird’s presence to predators in plant clutter when vision is obstructed . To resolve how the oscillating aerodynamic force generated by flapping wings may contribute to wing hum , we developed a new aerodynamic force platform ( Ingersoll and Lentink , 2018; Lentink et al . , 2015; Hightower et al . , 2017 ) to directly measure the net 3D aerodynamic force generated by freely hovering hummingbirds . We integrated this data in a new aeroacoustics model to predict the sound radiated due to the oscillating forces from flapping wings . Our model is idealized in the sense that it assumes the wings are rigid airfoils , thereby neglecting auxiliary effects such as wingtip flutter , feather whistle and ( turbulent ) vortex dynamics . Next , we compared the predicted acoustic field with novel acoustic nearfield recordings for six freely hovering hummingbirds , which corroborates the predictive power of our minimal model . We then used our validated model to determine how flapping wing hum depends on the frequency content in the oscillating forces across mosquitos , flies , hawkmoths , hummingbirds , and parrotlets in slow hovering flight . Finally , we used these findings to determine how the hum scales with body mass and flapping frequency across 170 insect and bird species . 
The roles of chance , contingency , and necessity in evolution are unresolved because they have never been assessed in a single system or on timescales relevant to historical evolution . We combined ancestral protein reconstruction and a new continuous evolution technology to mutate and select proteins in the B-cell lymphoma-2 ( BCL-2 ) family to acquire protein–protein interaction specificities that occurred during animal evolution . By replicating evolutionary trajectories from multiple ancestral proteins , we found that contingency generated over long historical timescales steadily erased necessity and overwhelmed chance as the primary cause of acquired sequence variation; trajectories launched from phylogenetically distant proteins yielded virtually no common mutations , even under strong and identical selection pressures . Chance arose because many sets of mutations could alter specificity at any timepoint; contingency arose because historical substitutions changed these sets . Our results suggest that patterns of variation in BCL-2 sequences – and likely other proteins , too – are idiosyncratic products of a particular and unpredictable course of historical events .  The extent to which biological diversity is the necessary result of optimization by natural selection or the unpredictable product of random events and historical contingency is one of evolutionary biology’s most fundamental and unresolved questions ( Gould , 1989; Jablonski , 2017; Ramsey and Pence , 2016; Travisano et al . , 1995 ) . The answer would have strong implications not only for our understanding of evolutionary processes but also for how we should analyze the particular forms of variation that exist today . For example , if diversity primarily reflects a predictable process of adaptation to distinct environments , then a central goal of biology would be to explain how the characteristics of living things help to execute particular functions and improve fitness ( Mayr , 1983 ) . By contrast , if diversity reflects chance sampling from a set of similarly fit possibilities , then the variation itself is of little interest because it does not affect biological properties or shape future evolutionary outcomes; the goal of biology would be to identify the invariant characteristics of natural systems and explain how they contribute to function ( Kimura , 1983; Lobkovsky and Koonin , 2012; Monod , 1972; Morris , 2015 ) . Finally , if diversity reflects contingency – a strong dependence of future outcomes on initial conditions or subsequent events , also known as path-dependence – then the outcomes of evolution would be predictable only given complete knowledge of the constraints and opportunities specific to each set of conditions ( Beatty , 2009; Blount et al . , 2018; Desjardins , 2011; Gould and Lewontin , 1979 ) ; the goal of biology would then be to characterize these constraints and opportunities , their mechanistic causes , and the historical events that shaped them . Many studies have provided insight into the ways that chance , contingency , and necessity can affect the evolution of molecular sequences and functions , but the relative importance of these factors during evolutionary history remains unresolved because they have never been measured in the same system , and their effects over long evolutionary time scales have not been characterized . For example , experiments on ancestral proteins have shown that particular historical mutations have different effects when introduced into different ancestral backgrounds – suggesting contingency – but they do not reveal the extent to which context-dependence actually influenced evolutionary outcomes; further , these historical trajectories happened only once , so they cannot elucidate the effect of contingency relative to chance ( Bloom et al . , 2010; Bridgham et al . , 2009; Gong et al . , 2013; Harms and Thornton , 2014; McKeown et al . , 2014; Natarajan et al . , 2016; Ortlund et al . , 2007; Risso et al . , 2015; Starr et al . , 2018; Wu et al . , 2018 ) . Experimental evolution studies could , in principle , characterize both chance and contingency if they had sufficient replication from multiple starting points , but to date no study has done so; furthermore , no study has imposed selection on historical proteins to acquire functions that changed during history , so their relevance to historical evolution is not clear ( Baier et al . , 2019; Blount et al . , 2012; Bollback and Huelsenbeck , 2009; Couñago et al . , 2006; Dickinson et al . , 2013; Kacar et al . , 2017; Kryazhimskiy et al . , 2014; Meyer et al . , 2012; Salverda et al . , 2011; Spor et al . , 2014; van Ditmarsch et al . , 2013; Wichman et al . , 1999; Wünsche et al . , 2017; Zheng et al . , 2019 ) . Studies of phenotypic convergence in nature suggest some degree of repeatability at the genetic level ( reviewed in Arendt and Reznick , 2008; Gompel and Prud'homme , 2009; Orgogozo , 2015; Storz , 2016 ) , but these studies rarely involve replicate lineages from the same starting genotypes , and evolutionary conditions are seldom identical; as a result , similarities and differences among lineages cannot be attributed to chance , contingency , or necessity . Furthermore , these studies have typically involved closely related species or populations and therefore do not measure the effects of chance and contingency that might be generated during long-term evolution . The ideal experiment to determine the relative roles of chance , contingency , and necessity in historical evolution would be to travel back in time , re-launch evolution multiple times from each of various starting points that existed during history , and allow these trajectories to play out under historical environmental conditions ( Gould , 1989 ) . By comparing outcomes among replicates launched from the same starting point , we could estimate the effects of chance; by comparing those from different starting points , we could quantify the effects of contingency that was generated along historical evolutionary paths ( Figure 1 ) . Necessity would be apparent if the same outcome recurred in every replicate , irrespective of the point from which evolutionary trajectories were launched and changes that occurred subsequently: in that case , evolution would be both deterministic ( free of chance ) and insensitive to initial and intervening conditions ( noncontingent ) . Although time travel is currently impossible , we can approximate this ideal design by reconstructing ancestral proteins as they existed in the deep past ( Thornton , 2004 ) and using them to launch replicated evolutionary trajectories in the laboratory under selection to acquire the same molecular functions that evolved during history . Here we implement this strategy using the B-cell lymphoma-2 ( BCL-2 ) protein family as a model system and the specificity of protein–protein interactions ( PPIs ) as the target of selection . BCL-2 family proteins are involved in the regulation of apoptosis ( Chipuk et al . , 2010; Danial and Korsmeyer , 2004; Kale et al . , 2018; Petros et al . , 2004 ) through PPIs with coregulators ( Chen et al . , 2005; Chen et al . , 2013; Dutta et al . , 2010; Lomonosova and Chinnadurai , 2008 ) . Although there are many dimensions to BCL-2 family proteins’ cellular effects , different binding specificities for coregulator proteins are a critical determinant of their particular biological functions . Among BCL-2 family members , the myeloid cell leukemia sequence 1 protein ( MCL-1 ) class strongly binds both the BID and NOXA coregulators , whereas the BCL-2 class ( a subset of the larger BCL-2 protein family ) strongly binds BID but not NOXA ( Figure 2A; Certo et al . , 2006 ) . The two classes share an ancient evolutionary origin: both are found throughout the Metazoa ( Banjara et al . , 2020; Lanave et al . , 2004 ) and are structurally similar , using the same cleft to interact with their coregulators ( Figure 2B , Figure 2—figure supplement 1 ) , despite having only 20% sequence identity . To drive the evolution of new PPI specificities , we developed a new high-throughput phage-assisted continuous evolution ( PACE ) system ( Esvelt et al . , 2011 ) that can simultaneously select for and against particular PPIs ( Pu et al . , 2019; Pu et al . , 2017b ) . We applied this technique to a series of reconstructed ancestral BCL-2 family members , repeatedly evolving each starting genotype to acquire PPI specificities found among extant family members . By comparing sequence outcomes among PACE replicates from the same starting point , we quantified the role of chance in the evolution of historically relevant molecular functions under strong and identical selection pressures; by comparing outcomes of PACE initiated from different starting points , we quantified the effect of contingency generated by the sequence changes that accumulated during these proteins’ histories . This design also allowed us to characterize how these factors have changed over phylogenetic time and dissect the underlying genetic basis by which they emerged . 
Similarity between two individuals in the combination of genetic markers along their chromosomes indicates shared ancestry and can be used to identify historical connections between different population groups due to admixture . We use a genome-wide , haplotype-based , analysis to characterise the structure of genetic diversity and gene-flow in a collection of 48 sub-Saharan African groups . We show that coastal populations experienced an influx of Eurasian haplotypes over the last 7000 years , and that Eastern and Southern Niger-Congo speaking groups share ancestry with Central West Africans as a result of recent population expansions . In fact , most sub-Saharan populations share ancestry with groups from outside of their current geographic region as a result of gene-flow within the last 4000 years . Our in-depth analysis provides insight into haplotype sharing across different ethno-linguistic groups and the recent movement of alleles into new environments , both of which are relevant to studies of genetic epidemiology .  Advances in DNA analysis technology and the drive to understand the genetic basis of human phenotypes has led to a rapid growth in the amount of genomic data that is available for analysis . Whilst tens of thousands of genetic variants have been associated with different diseases in populations of European descent ( Welter et al . , 2014 ) , less progress has been made in studies of important diseases in Africa ( Need and Goldstein , 2009 ) . Several consortia are beginning to focus on understanding the genetic basis of infectious and non-communicable disease specifically in Africa ( Malaria Genomic Epidemiology Network , 2008; 2015; H3Africa Consortium , 2014; Gurdasani et al . , 2014 ) , and a number of recent studies have described patterns of genetic variation across the continent ( Campbell and Tishkoff , 2008; Tishkoff et al . , 2009; Gurdasani et al . , 2014 ) . Analyses of the structure of genetic variation are important in the design , analysis , and interpretation of genetic epidemiology studies – which aim to uncover novel relationships between genes , the environment , and disease ( Malaria Genomic Epidemiology Network , 2015 ) – and provide an opportunity to relate patterns of association to historical connections between different human populations . Admixture occurs when genetically differentiated ancestral groups come together and mix , a process which is increasingly regarded as a common feature of human populations across the globe ( Patterson et al . , 2012; Hellenthal et al . , 2014; Busby et al . , 2015 ) . Genome-wide analyses of African populations are refining previous models of the continent’s history and its impact on genetic diversity . One insight is the identification of clear , but complex , evidence for the movement of Eurasian ancestry back into the continent as a result of admixture over a variety of timescales ( Pagani et al . , 2012; Pickrell et al . , 2014; Gurdasani et al . , 2014; Hodgson et al . , 2014a; Llorente et al . , 2015 ) . On a broad sample of 18 ethnic groups from eight countries , the African Genome Variation Project ( AGVP ) ( Gurdasani et al . , 2014 ) recreated a previous analysis to identify recent Eurasian admixture , within the last 1 . 5 thousand years ( ky ) , in the Fulani of West Africa ( Tishkoff et al . , 2009; Henn et al . , 2012 ) and several East African groups from Kenya; older Eurasian ancestry ( 2–5 ky ) in Ethiopian groups , consistent with previous studies of similar populations ( Pagani et al . , 2012; Pickrell et al . , 2014 ) ; and a novel signal of ancient ( >7 . 5 ky ) Eurasian admixture in the Yoruba of Central West Africa ( Gurdasani et al . , 2014 ) . Comparisons of contemporary sub-Saharan African populations with the first ancient genome from within Africa , a 4 . 5 ky Ethiopian individual ( Llorente et al . , 2015 ) , provide additional support for limited migration of Eurasian ancestry back into East Africa within the last 3000 years . Within this timescale , the major demographic change within Africa was the transition from hunting and gathering to pastoralist and agricultural lifestyles ( Diamond and Bellwood , 2003; Smith , 2005; Barham and Mitchell , 2008; Li et al . , 2014 ) . This shift was long and complex and occurred at different speeds , instigating contrasting interactions between the agriculturalist pioneers and the inhabitant people ( Mitchell , 2002; Marks et al . , 2014 ) . The change was initialised by the spread of pastoralism ( i . e . the raising and herding of livestock ) across Africa and the subsequent movement east and south from Central West Africa of agricultural technology together with the branch of Niger-Congo languages known as Bantu ( Mitchell , 2002; Barham and Mitchell , 2008 ) . The extent to which this cultural expansion was accompanied by people is an active research question , but an increasing number of molecular studies indicate that the expansion of languages was accompanied by the diffusion of people ( Beleza et al . , 2005; Berniell-Lee et al . , 2009; Tishkoff et al . , 2009; Pakendorf et al . , 2011; de Filippo et al . , 2012; Ansari Pour et al . , 2013; Li et al . , 2014; González-Santos et al . , 2015 ) . The AGVP also found evidence of widespread hunter-gatherer ancestry in African populations , including ancient ( 9 ky ) Khoesan ancestry in the Igbo from Nigeria , and more recent hunter-gatherer ancestry in eastern ( 2 . 5–4 . 5 ky ) and southern ( 0 . 9–4 ky ) African populations ( Gurdasani et al . , 2014 ) . The identification of hunter-gatherer ancestry in non-hunter-gatherer populations together with the timing of these latter events is consistent with the known expansion of Bantu languages across Africa within the last 3 ky ( Mitchell , 2002; Diamond and Bellwood , 2003; Smith , 2005; Barham and Mitchell , 2008; Marks et al . , 2014; Li et al . , 2014 ) . These studies have described the novel and important influence of both Eurasian and hunter-gatherer ancestry on the population genetic history of sub-Saharan Africa and provide an important description of the movement of alleles and haplotypes into and within the continent , but questions remain of the extent and timing of key events , and their impact on contemporary populations . Here we analyse genome-wide data from 12 Eurasian and 46 sub-Saharan African groups . Half ( 23 ) of the African groups represent subsets of samples collected from nine countries as part of the MalariaGEN consortium . Details on the recruitment of samples in relation to studying malaria genetics are published elsewhere ( Malaria Genomic Epidemiology Network , 2014; 2015 ) . The remaining 23 groups are from publicly available datasets from a further eight sub-Saharan African countries ( Pagani et al . , 2012; Schlebusch et al . , 2012; Petersen et al . , 2013 ) and the 1000 Genomes Project ( 1KGP ) , with Eurasian groups from the latter included to help understand the genetic contribution from outside of the continent ( Figure 1—figure supplement 1 ) . With the exception of Austronesian in Madagascar , African languages can be broadly classified into four major macro-families: Afroasiatic , Nilo-Saharan , Niger-Congo , and Khoesan ( Blench , 2006 ) ; and although we have representative groups from each ( Supplementary file 1 ) , our sample represents a significant proportion of the sub-Saharan population in terms of number , but not does not equate to a complete picture of African ethnic diversity . We created an integrated dataset of genotypes at 328 , 000 high-quality SNPs and use established approaches for comparing population allele frequencies across groups to provide a baseline view of historical gene-flow . We then apply statistical approaches to phasing genotypes to obtain haplotypes for each individual , and use previously published methods to represent the haplotypes that an individual carries as a mosaic of other haplotypes in the sample ( so-called chromosome painting [Li and Stephens , 2003] ) . We present a detailed picture of haplotype sharing across sub-Saharan Africa using a model-based clustering approach that groups individuals using haplotype information alone . The inferred groups reflect broad-scale geographic patterns . At finer scales , our analysis reveals smaller groups , and often differentiates closely related populations consistent with self-reported ancestry ( Tishkoff et al . , 2009; Bryc et al . , 2010; Hodgson et al . , 2014a ) . We describe these patterns by measuring gene-flow between populations and relate them to potential historical movements of people into and within sub-Saharan Africa . Understanding the extent to which individuals share haplotypes ( which we call coancestry ) , rather than independent markers , can provide a rich description of ancestral relationships and population history ( Lawson et al . , 2012; Leslie et al . , 2015 ) . For each group we use the latest analytical tools to characterise the populations as mixtures of haplotypes and provide estimates for the date of admixture events ( Lawson et al . , 2012; Hellenthal et al . , 2014; Leslie et al . , 2015; Montinaro et al . , 2015 ) . As well as providing a quantitative measure of the coancestry between groups , we identify the dominant events which have shaped current genetic diversity in sub-Saharan Africa . We close by discussing the relevance of these observations to studying genotype-phenotype associations in Africa . 
Early development of many animals is characterized by rapid cleavages that dramatically decrease cell size , but how the mitotic spindle adapts to changing cell dimensions is not understood . To identify mechanisms that scale the spindle during Xenopus laevis embryogenesis , we established an in vitro system using cytoplasmic extracts prepared from embryos that recapitulates in vivo spindle size differences between stage 3 ( 4 cells , 37 µm ) and stage 8 ( ∼4000 cells , 18 µm ) . We identified the kinesin-13 kif2a as a driver of developmental spindle scaling whose microtubule-destabilizing activity is inhibited in stage 3 spindles by the transport receptor importin α , and activated in stage 8 when importin α partitions to a membrane pool . Altering spindle size in developing embryos impaired spindle orientation during metaphase , but chromosome segregation remained robust . Thus , spindle size in Xenopus development is coupled to cell size through a ratiometric mechanism controlling microtubule destabilization .  Cell size varies widely among different organisms and cell types , and changes rapidly during early animal development when cell division occurs in the absence of growth . The mitotic spindle , a dynamic bipolar structure composed primarily of microtubules ( MTs ) and organizing proteins ( Walczak and Heald , 2008 ) , must adjust to cell size to segregate chromosomes the proper distance and signal to the cell cortex to specify orientation of the cleavage furrow ( Levy and Heald , 2012 ) . However , the mechanisms coordinating cell and spindle size are poorly understood , and the functional consequences of altering these mechanisms during vertebrate development are unknown . Embryogenesis of the frog Xenopus laevis typifies the developmental scaling problem , and both cell and spindle sizes have been measured ( Wuhr et al . , 2008 ) . Following fertilization , the ∼1 . 2-mm-diameter egg synchronously divides 12 times at approximately 30-min intervals , leading to a ∼100-fold decrease in cell volume and at least a 20-fold decrease in cell diameter by the midblastula transition ( stage 8 . 5 ) , when zygotic transcription starts . Initially , the cortically localized meiosis II spindle ( ∼35 µm ) segregates chromosomes a short distance , generating a small polar body that preserves egg cytoplasm . During the early cleavages , there is an upper limit to spindle size ( ∼60 µm ) , and astral microtubules mediate movement of chromosomes long distances during anaphase ( Wuhr et al . , 2008 ) . At these stages , spindle size is small compared to cell size , and cytoplasmic mechanisms likely operate , since in vivo spindle size is maintained in extracts prepared from eggs or two-cell stage embryos ( Mitchison et al . , 2005; Wuhr et al . , 2008; Loughlin et al . , 2011 ) . As cell and spindle size converge , a constant ratio of ∼2:1 cell diameter:spindle length is established , and spindle length reduces to ∼20 µm by the end of the synchronous cleavage divisions . To what extent cell size influences spindle size or if changes in cytoplasmic activities contribute to spindle scaling at these later stages is unknown . Experiment and simulation indicate that the balance of MT nucleation , transport , and destabilization are critical for setting spindle size in egg extracts ( Loughlin et al . , 2010; Brugues et al . , 2012 ) . By comparing two closely related Xenopus species , we showed previously that meiotic spindle size is partially controlled by activity of the MT severing protein katanin ( Loughlin et al . , 2011 ) . However , the genetically encoded differences that underpinned variation in katanin activity cannot play a role during early development in an embryo with a single genetic background and when transcription is repressed . In early Caenorhabditis elegans development , decreasing spindle length correlates with a decrease in centrosome size and a decay gradient of the protein of TPXL-1 along spindle MTs ( Greenan et al . , 2010 ) . In contrast , spindle assembly in X . laevis egg extracts does not require centrosomes and depends heavily on a chromatin-centered gradient of RanGTP , which locally releases spindle assembly factors from the nucleocytoplasmic transport protein importin β and its adaptor importin α that binds nuclear localization sequence ( NLS ) –containing cargos ( Gruss et al . , 2001; Kalab and Heald , 2008 ) . The respective contribution of gradients and centrosomes are expected to alter spindle architecture and size , and could be influenced by cell size through availability of components ( Goehring and Hyman , 2012 ) . The gradual transition from meiotic to mitotic spindle architecture observed in mouse embryos supports this view ( Courtois et al . , 2012 ) . Collectively , these observations suggest that changes in gradients and spindle assembly pathways are likely to accompany cell size changes and could influence spindle size . To address how spindle size is determined during vertebrate embryogenesis , we created an embryo extract system capable of assembling spindles in cytoplasmic extracts at any stage of X . laevis development up to the midblastula transition when cell divisions become asynchronous ( Newport and Kirschner , 1982 ) . We compared stage 3 and stage 8 , the two extremes of spindle size in our extract system , and found that MT dynamics are modified to reduce spindle size upon release of an inhibitory interaction between the MT depolymerizing kinesin kif2a and importin α . This occurs through redistribution of importin α from the cytoplasm to a membrane fraction . Taking advantage of this mechanism to modify spindle size without functionally perturbing the spindle allowed us to uncover an important role for spindle size in maintaining spindle orientation in the large cells of early Xenopus development . This work suggests that the changing physical features of the cell can drive intracellular scaling through biochemical partitioning and steady-state redistribution of activities . 
Gene control systems sometimes interpret multiple signals to set the expression levels of the genes they regulate . In rare instances , ligand-binding riboswitch aptamers form tandem arrangements to approximate the function of specific two-input Boolean logic gates . Here , we report the discovery of riboswitch aptamers for phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate ( PRPP ) that naturally exist either in singlet arrangements , or occur in tandem with guanine aptamers . Tandem guanine-PRPP aptamers can bind the target ligands , either independently or in combination , to approximate the function expected for an IMPLY Boolean logic gate to regulate transcription of messenger RNAs for de novo purine biosynthesis in bacteria . The existence of sophisticated all-RNA regulatory systems that sense two ancient ribonucleotide derivatives to control synthesis of RNA molecules supports the hypothesis that RNA World organisms could have managed a complex metabolic state without the assistance of protein regulatory factors .  A variety of riboswitch classes regulate gene expression in response to the binding of specific metabolite or inorganic ion ligands ( Roth and Breaker , 2009; Serganov and Nudler , 2013; Sherwood and Henkin , 2016 ) . Previously , 25 riboswitch classes were known that selectively respond to ligands that are chemical derivatives of RNA monomers or their precursors ( McCown et al . , 2017 ) . This strong bias in favor of RNA-like ligands strengthens the hypothesis ( Nelson and Breaker , 2017; Breaker , 2010 ) that many of the widely-distributed riboswitch classes are direct descendants from the RNA World – a time before genetically-encoded protein biosynthesis ( Gilbert , 1986; Benner et al . , 1989 ) . If this speculation is generally correct , we can expect that some of the most abundant riboswitch classes remaining to be discovered also will regulate gene expression in response to the binding of other ancient RNA derivatives ( Breaker , 2011 ) . With these considerations in mind , we evaluated the possible functions of variants of recently validated riboswitches for guanidine ( Nelson et al . , 2017 ) . Collectively , guanidine-I riboswitches along with differently-functioning variants were originally called the ykkC orphan riboswitch candidate because no ligand had been identified ( Barrick et al . , 2004; Meyer et al . , 2011 ) . After removing guanidine-I riboswitches ( subtype 1 ) , which constituted ~70% of the original ykkC motif RNAs , we further separated the remaining collection of ykkC RNA variants ( subtype 2 ) . Upon further investigation of the RNA sequences , the phylogeny of organisms containing these RNAs , and the genes associated with each instance of the RNA , we concluded that ykkC subtype 2 RNAs were populated by multiple riboswitch classes that sensed distinct ligands . Subtype 2 representatives were sorted according to the gene located immediately downstream from the ykkC RNA motif to create revised consensus models for the RNAs within each gene association group . In some cases , additional conserved nucleotides were observed immediately 5´ and 3´ of the three hairpin structures ( called P1 , P2 and P3 ) that are characteristic of ykkC motif RNAs . This region located downstream of the guanidine binding site of subtype 1 RNAs were found to be unnecessary for guanidine-I riboswitches . In total , these distinct representatives were sorted into four candidate riboswitch classes called subtypes 2a through 2d . All subtype 2 RNAs appear to be extremely similar because they share many of the same highly-conserved nucleotides and secondary structure features . We were fortunate to have high-resolution crystal structures ( Reiss et al . , 2017; Battaglia et al . , 2017 ) of the guanidine-I riboswitch ( subtype 1 , Figure 1A ) in hand when evaluating each of these variant subtypes . Nearly all highly-conserved nucleotides shared by ykkC RNAs are involved in forming tertiary contacts within the larger folded structure that positions other nucleotides to form the ligand-binding pocket . However , nucleotides that change identity and are characteristic of each subtype are almost exclusively found in close proximity to the known binding pocket of guanidine-I riboswitches ( indicated by black asterisks in Figure 1A ) . For subtypes 2a , 2b , and 2c , we speculated that the additional stretches of conserved nucleotides preceding the P1 stem and following the P3 stem likely play a role in ligand recognition , or perhaps provide structural support for an expanded binding pocket . Unfortunately , because these nucleotides are not conserved in guanidine-I riboswitches , we do not currently have a good understanding of their 3D positioning relative to the rest of the aptamer . It quickly became clear that sequences associated with branched-chain amino acid metabolism appeared highly similar to those associated with glutamate synthases and natA transporters , and so these were collectively termed ykkC subtype 2a ( Figure 1A ) . Shortly thereafter , these were experimentally verified as a riboswitch class that responds to the bacterial alarmone ppGpp ( ME Sherlock , N Sudarsan , RR Breaker , manuscript submitted ) . Herein , we describe the function of ykkC subtype 2b RNAs ( Figure 1A , B ) , whereas the ligands for subtype 2c and 2d RNAs have not yet been identified ( see discussion ) . Three major clues were exploited to identify phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate ( PRPP; 5-phospho-α-D-ribose 1-diphosphate ) ( Figure 1B ) as the ligand for riboswitches represented by ykkC subtype 2b RNAs . First , representatives of this riboswitch class commonly associate with genes for de novo purine biosynthesis ( Figure 1C ) . In addition , cytosine deaminase ( codA ) , a gene involved in pyrimidine salvage that is known to be repressed by the purine guanine ( Kilstrup et al . , 1989 ) , is also commonly located downstream of subtype 2b RNAs . These associated genes , which are either related to the production of purines or are regulated by a purine , suggested to us that the ligand would most likely be a compound related to purine metabolism . Second , there are 257 examples of ykkC subtype 2b RNAs distributed throughout bacteria of the phylum Firmicutes . Of these , 127 examples occur in a tandem arrangement ( Sudarsan et al . , 2006 ) with a guanine aptamer ( Mandal et al . , 2003 ) located directly upstream ( Figure 1B ) . Such tandem arrangements are likely to function in concert as two-input molecular logic gates ( ; Stoddard and Batey , 2006; Lee et al . , 2010 ) . Guanine riboswitches typically turn off expression of downstream purine biosynthesis genes when sufficient guanine is present ( Mandal et al . , 2003 ) , while representatives of ykkC subtype 2b riboswitches were predicted to turn on expression of downstream genes . The physical arrangement of each aptamer in the tandem arrangement suggests that they share a single expression platform . Guanine binding to its aptamer likely would promote the formation of an adjoining intrinsic transcription terminator stem , which would halt transcription . In opposition , binding of ligand to the adjacent subtype 2b RNA would preclude terminator stem formation and thereby override the typical function of the guanine riboswitch . If this speculation is correct , then the ligand for subtype 2b RNAs should trigger cells to make more purines even when one of the major purine compounds , guanine , is plentiful . Third , we noticed that the consensus sequence and structural models for ppGpp riboswitch aptamers ( subtype 2a ) and subtype 2b RNAs are remarkably alike , including many similarities at the ligand binding site , suggesting that their ligands might also share some chemical features . Particularly notable was the observation that a long-range C-G base-pair present in guanidine-I riboswitches ( Reiss et al . , 2017; Battaglia et al . , 2017 ) is absent in ppGpp riboswitches , but appears to again be present in subtype 2b RNAs . We speculated that the structural role of the G nucleotide missing in ppGpp aptamers might be performed by the guanine base of the ligand . However , because the highly-similar subtype 2b RNA retains this G nucleotide ( indicated by a red asterisk in Figure 1A ) in its aptamer , its ligand might resemble an apurinic version of ppGpp . 
The number of neurotransmitter-filled vesicles released into the synaptic cleft with each action potential dictates the reliability of synaptic transmission . Variability of this fundamental property provides diversity of synaptic function across brain regions , but the source of this variability is unclear . The prevailing view is that release of a single ( univesicular release , UVR ) or multiple vesicles ( multivesicular release , MVR ) reflects variability in vesicle release probability , a notion that is well-supported by the calcium-dependence of release mode . However , using mouse brain slices , we now demonstrate that the number of vesicles released is regulated by the size of the readily-releasable pool , upstream of vesicle release probability . Our results point to a model wherein protein kinase A and its vesicle-associated target , synapsin , dynamically control release site occupancy to dictate the number of vesicles released without altering release probability . Together these findings define molecular mechanisms that control MVR and functional diversity of synaptic signaling .  Excitatory glutamatergic synapses mediate the majority of fast communication between neurons in the brain . While general mechanisms underlying synaptic transmission are well-conserved , there is robust diversity in the synaptic parameters that dictate the reliability and temporal fidelity of transmission between brain regions and species ( Nusser , 2018 ) . One fundamental parameter that controls synaptic efficacy is the number of vesicles released in response to an action potential . At each presynaptic bouton that contains a single anatomically-defined active zone , it was originally surmised that at most , one neurotransmitter-filled vesicle can be released ( Redman , 1990 ) . Although the one-site-one-vesicle hypothesis was well accepted for decades , a wealth of evidence now demonstrates that multiple vesicles can be released from a given active zone , a process termed multivesicular release ( MVR; Tong and Jahr , 1994; Auger et al . , 1998 ) . MVR is widespread in the rodent CNS and it appears to be the dominant release mode in human cortex ( Rudolph et al . , 2015; Molnár et al . , 2016 ) . Yet some synapses are limited to the release of a single vesicle per active zone , termed univesicular release ( UVR; Korn et al . , 1981; Stevens and Wang , 1995; Silver , 2003; Biró et al . , 2005 ) and other synapses switch release modes in an activity-dependent manner ( Bender et al . , 2009; Higley et al . , 2009; Pulido et al . , 2015 ) . Understanding the mechanisms that determine whether an active zone supports UVR or MVR is important to understand synaptic diversity as well as to develop unifying models of presynaptic function that account for multiple presynaptic parameters . The number of vesicles released from an active zone is the product of vesicle release probability ( Pr ) and the number of vesicles available for release . While MVR typically correlates with Pr , experimental evidence supporting Pr as the sole determinant of MVR is mixed . At many synapses , including the climbing fiber ( CF ) to Purkinje cell ( PC ) synapse in the cerebellum , manipulating Pr alters the degree of MVR in the expected manner ( Tong and Jahr , 1994; Wadiche and Jahr , 2001; Bender et al . , 2009; Higley et al . , 2009; Nahir and Jahr , 2013 ) . However , some high Pr ( 0 . 8–0 . 9 ) synapses display exclusively UVR ( Silver , 2003; Murphy et al . , 2004 ) , whereas some low Pr ( 0 . 13–0 . 33 ) synapses can exhibit MVR ( Oertner et al . , 2002; Taschenberger et al . , 2002; Foster et al . , 2005; Christie and Jahr , 2006 ) . This illustrates that Pr alone is insufficient to dictate vesicle release mode , pointing to the potential contribution of vesicle availability . What determines vesicle availability ? Anatomical analysis shows that single active zones contain a variable number of docked vesicles that may represent release-competent vesicles ( Schikorski and Stevens , 1997 ) . Yet it is debated whether anatomically-defined docked vesicles correspond to the population of vesicles that comprise the readily-releasable pool ( RRP ) , a functional measure that defines the available vesicles across all active zones ( Dobrunz and Stevens , 1997; Schikorski and Stevens , 2001; Rizzoli and Betz , 2004; Moulder and Mennerick , 2005 ) . An emerging idea is that the number of docking sites ( i . e . release sites ) within an active zone is constant but their occupancy by release-competent vesicles is dynamic ( Pulido and Marty , 2017 ) . Surprisingly , whether the RRP dictates the number of vesicles released per active zone has not been addressed . As the key parameter controlling the number of available vesicles , we predict that the RRP is a critical determinant release mode . To overcome the constraints and assumptions of anatomical measures , we indirectly measured the synaptic cleft glutamate concentration as a proxy for the number of vesicles released per active zone while separately measuring Pr and the RRP . We find that cyclic AMP-dependent ( cAMP ) protein kinase A ( PKA ) , a canonical pathway that induces various forms of presynaptic plasticity and increases MVR ( Huang et al . , 1994; Salin et al . , 1996; Chen and Regehr , 1997; Moulder et al . , 2008; Bender et al . , 2009; Midorikawa and Sakaba , 2017 ) , bidirectionally modifies release mode via regulation of the RRP . We show that PKA regulation of MVR can be dissociated from its effects on Pr , and requires synapsins , a family of proteins that are well-known to control the RRP . Our results support a model wherein the release mode is controlled by release site occupancy upstream of Pr , potentially explaining the paradoxical reports of MVR in conditions of high and low Pr . By dissociating the requirement of high Pr from MVR , these results provide new insight into molecular mechanisms that control MVR and illustrate how diverse modes of synaptic transmission can arise from common signaling pathways . 
HIV-1 Gag selects and packages a dimeric , unspliced viral RNA in the context of a large excess of cytosolic human RNAs . As Gag assembles on the plasma membrane , the HIV-1 genome is enriched relative to cellular RNAs by an unknown mechanism . We used a minimal system consisting of purified RNAs , recombinant HIV-1 Gag and giant unilamellar vesicles to recapitulate the selective packaging of the 5’ untranslated region of the HIV-1 genome in the presence of excess competitor RNA . Mutations in the CA-CTD domain of Gag which subtly affect the self-assembly of Gag abrogated RNA selectivity . We further found that tRNA suppresses Gag membrane binding less when Gag has bound viral RNA . The ability of HIV-1 Gag to selectively package its RNA genome and its self-assembly on membranes are thus interdependent on one another .  Packaging the correct genetic material is a key event in the assembly of an infectious virus . In the case of HIV-1 , both the recognition of the genomic RNA , its targeting to the plasma membrane , and assembly of a membrane-enveloped virus around it is carried out by the viral protein Gag ( Rein et al . , 2011; Sundquist and Kräusslich , 2012; Freed , 2015 ) . The nucleocapsid ( NC ) domain of Gag has two zinc knuckle motifs which together with adjacent residues interact with the viral RNA ( Berkowitz et al . , 1993; Lu et al . , 2011b ) . Mutations in NC that interfere with RNA binding lead to formation of non-infectious viruses ( Aldovini and Young , 1990; Gorelick et al . , 1990 ) . Transcription of the integrated HIV-1 provirus results in both spliced and unspliced transcripts , coding for different viral proteins ( Coffin et al . , 1997 ) . Gag selectively packages unspliced , full-length genomic RNA through interactions with its 5’ untranslated region ( 5’UTR ) , which is different in spliced and unspliced constructs ( Lu et al . , 2011b; Kuzembayeva et al . , 2014 ) . In addition to sequences that mediate the packaging of the genomic RNA , the 5’UTR also has sequence elements related to transcription processivity ( TAR ) , binding of tRNALys-3 as a primer for reverse transcription ( PBS ) , and genome dimerization ( DIS ) ( Johnson and Telesnitsky , 2010; Lu et al . , 2011b; Kuzembayeva et al . , 2014 ) . Single-virion fluorescence assays indicate that >90% of released HIV-1 particles have packaged genomic RNA ( Chen et al . , 2009 ) , and packaging of a dimeric genome appears to be strongly preferred ( Sakuragi et al . , 2003; Chen et al . , 2009; Nikolaitchik et al . , 2013 ) . The packaging of a single dimeric genome is independent of RNA mass , since genomes with altered lengths are always packaged as single dimers ( Nikolaitchik et al . , 2013 ) . Genomic RNAs with sequence differences are efficiently packaged as heterodimers as long as they have identical DIS sequences ( Chen et al . , 2009 ) . The ψ/SL3 stem loop region in the 5’UTR was initially identified as a sequence required for efficient packaging of genomic RNA into HIV-1 virions ( Lever et al . , 1989 ) . Later work characterized a more extended core encapsidation signal ( CES ) which also includes the U5:AUG and PBS stems , the dimerization signal ( DIS ) and the splice donor ( SD ) region ( Heng et al . , 2012 ) . Unpaired and weakly paired guanosines in several regions of the CES , including but not limited to ψ/SL3 were identified as important for packaging ( Abd El-Wahab et al . , 2014; Keane et al . , 2015; Kenyon et al . , 2015 ) . Structures of NC complexed with ψ/SL3 ( De Guzman et al . , 1998 ) and other smaller fragments from the 5’UTR ( Lu et al . , 2011b ) have provided atomic details of how the two zinc knuckles and adjacent motifs of NC interact with RNA . A crystal structure of the DIS:DIS dimerization complex ( Ennifar et al . , 2001 ) along with an NMR structure of the entire CES ( Keane et al . , 2015 ) put these structures in the context of a larger RNA . Thus , we now have a detailed understanding of RNA structural determinants for packaging at the level of individual 5’UTR dimers . A single released HIV-1 virus contains one dimeric genomic RNA ( Chen et al . , 2009 ) and 2400 ± 700 Gag molecules ( Carlson et al . , 2008 ) , indicating that the selective genome packaging may depend on more than just the binary NC-CES interaction . Indeed , cross-linking-immunoprecipitation sequencing ( CLIP-seq ) revealed a strikingly different RNA preference of cytosolic and membrane-bound Gag ( Kutluay et al . , 2014 ) . Cytosolic Gag binds tRNA through its otherwise membrane-binding matrix ( MA ) domain , and associates mainly with cellular RNAs through its NC domain . The minor fraction of cytosolic Gag which binds viral RNA has a strong preference for the 5’UTR but also binds to the Rev-responsive element ( RRE ) , whose main function is thought to be in nuclear export ( Kuzembayeva et al . , 2014 ) . On the other hand , Gag in the membrane fraction has lost its tRNA association and is strongly enriched for viral RNA , interacting with equal probability with all parts of the genomic RNA . Existing structural and biochemical data are not sufficient to explain how a pool of cytosolic Gag , binding mainly cellular RNA , assembles into virus particles which package dimeric viral genomes with 90% probability . Here , we have reconstituted the selective genome packaging of HIV-1 in a minimal system using giant unilamellar vesicles ( GUVs ) , recombinant myristoylated HIV-1 Gag and purified RNAs . Gag assembling on GUV membranes selectively packages the HIV-1 5’UTR at subnanomolar concentrations in the presence of excess competitor RNA . We find that the RNA selectivity of Gag is abolished by mutations that subtly affect its ability to cluster on a membrane . Using SHAPE analysis , we find that membrane recruitment of the 5’UTR by Gag does not lead to drastic changes in its secondary structure , and we further demonstrate that the association of soluble Gag with tRNA confers additional RNA packaging selectivity . 
