A key question in the field is how DNA sequence variants impact gene expression , with most mechanistic studies to date focused on the effects of genetic change on regulatory regions upstream of protein-coding sequence . By contrast , the role of RNA 3′-end processing in regulatory variation remains largely unknown , owing in part to the challenge of identifying functional elements in 3′ untranslated regions . Focusing on the immune regulator IRF5 , we established the effect of natural variation in RNA 3′-end processing on regulatory response to antigen stimulation . Our results underscore the importance of two mechanisms at play in the genetics of 3′-end variation: the usage of distinct 3′-end processing signals and the effects of 3′ sequence elements that determine transcript fate . A key problem in the field is understanding the molecular mechanisms by which DNA sequence variants give rise to expression change . Recent work has emphasized the importance of sequence differences in regions upstream of gene loci that harbor cis-acting determinants of transcription factor binding [6]–[10] and chromatin architecture [11]–[13] . Alternative polyadenylation represents a major regulatory strategy in the human genome , with analysis across tissue types detecting multiple 3′ UTR forms of over half of all human genes [14] . Progress in dissecting the genetics of 3′-end processing has been limited in part by fundamental questions about the regulatory information encoded in 3′ UTRs . Single-gene studies have made clear that , in addition to its interplay with exonic splicing [23] , [24] , RNA 3′-end processing can dictate the extent of 3′ UTR sequence incorporated into mature transcripts that governs half-life , translation , and localization [25]–[29]; the efficiency of transcription termination itself can also influence steady-state expression level of a given length form [30]–[34] . Likewise , the search for molecular players underlying cis-regulation of 3′-end processing at individual gene loci [23] and genome-scale regulation of 3′-end processing in trans [14] , [29] , [35]–[40] is an area of active research . A complete understanding of the genetics of alternative polyadenylation will require maps of transcript end site usage and 3′ cis-regulatory elements , and analysis strategies to integrate the data . Recently developed short-read sequencing methods for transcript ends [40]–[46] have enabled the possibility of quantitative studies of the regulatory architecture of transcript end forms on a genomic scale . We used 3′-end RNA-seq [42] to maximize the genomic coverage and precision of transcript end positions , and to measure quantitative expression levels of transcript forms .
Here , we exploit deep sequencing technology and comprehensive CD8 T cell epitope mapping to deconstruct the CD8 T cell response , to identify the regions of immune pressure and viral escape , and to delineate the effect of epitope escape on the evolution of the CD8 T cell response in SIVΔnef-vaccinated animals . Furthermore , we show that epitope escape expands the CD8 T cell repertoire that targets highly conserved epitopes , defined as anentropic specificity , and generates de novo responses to the escaped epitope variants during the vaccination period . Importantly , these findings render SIVΔnef , long the gold standard in HIV/SIV vaccine research , as a proof-of-concept vaccine that highlights the significance of the twin principles of anentropic specificity and repertoire depth in successful vaccine design . Since then , numerous studies have demonstrated the efficacy of SIVΔnef-induced protection , ranging from complete protection with sterilizing immunity to partial protection with two or more logs reduction in peak and set-point viremia [2–6] . Remarkably , presumably in part due to the replication of SIVΔnef in mucosal sites [7] , robust protection has been also been documented following mucosal challenges [3–5] . However , studies describing disease progression in SIVΔnef-vaccinated infant macaques and a subset of adult non-human primates precluded live attenuated HIV from being developed as a vaccine in human subjects [8–10] . Due to concerns over safety , research on SIVΔnef and related LASIV vaccines has shifted from safety-and-efficacy determination to mechanism-of-action delineation . Most recently , Fukazawa et al . [6] correlated the magnitude of lymph node SIV-specific T cell responses with protection elicited by a range of different LASIV strains , including SIVΔnef . In this work , we sought to scrutinize the interplay of the attenuated virus and the immune response at a high resolution . We chose to focus on the CD8 T cell response as the most likely immune correlate for protection given that previous studies have demonstrated: potent anti-lentiviral activity of CD8 T cells in vitro [17–21]; increased viremia during chronic SIV infection after CD8 T cell depletion [22]; the ability of a live attenuated SHIV vaccine containing HIV env to protect vaccinated macaques against SIVmac239 challenge [16 , 23]; SIVΔnef-mediated protection of animals challenged with wild-type SIVmac239 containing highly heterologous env sequences [24]; and a correlation between increased LASIV-induced protection and higher magnitude of SIV-specific CD4 and CD8 T cells in the lymph nodes of vaccinated animals [6] . We hypothesized that , despite low levels of viral replication , SIVΔnef undergoes sequence evolution during the vaccination period , which would induce a shift in the specificity of the CD8 T cell response between week 5 , when the animals are not protected , and week 20 , where increased protection plateaus [12] . Concurrently , we fine-mapped the CD8 T cell responses at the epitope level at week 5 and 20 post-vaccination . Studying this cohort of animals longitudinally after SIVΔnef vaccination , we demonstrate concomitant coevolution of the virus and the specificity of the CD8 T cell response , resulting in a CD8 T cell repertoire with increased anentropic specificity , wider cumulative breadth , rearranged immunodominance and enhanced depth .
Host protection is conferred by cellular immunity; however , the induction of antifungal immunity is not well understood . We demonstrate that both the recruitment of circulating neutrophils to the site of infection and the mobilization of newly generated neutrophils from the bone marrow depended on IL-1R . Consistently , IL-1R-deficient mice displayed impaired chemokine production at the site of infection and defective secretion of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) in the circulation in response to C . albicans . The IL-1-dependent crosstalk between two different cellular subsets of the nonhematopoietic compartment was confirmed in vitro using a novel murine tongue-derived keratinocyte cell line and an established endothelial cell line . These data establish a new link between IL-1 and granulopoiesis in the context of fungal infection . The opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida albicans has emerged as a significant cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide , particularly in immunocompromised individuals [1] . The symptoms reach from mild forms of infection to chronic or recurrent diseases . albicans infections thus represent an important socio-economic challenge worldwide . The epithelium constitutes the first point of contact between the fungus and the host [3] . It provides an important physical barrier to prevent fungal invasion . Moreover , it has the capacity to sense and respond to the fungus . albicans . The epithelium elicits signals in response to the fungus that can promote the inflammatory response [3] , while cytokines such as IL-17 , produced by leukocytes , act on the epithelium to enhance its barrier function and antimicrobial activity [4 , 5] . Neutrophils comprise a major proportion of circulating peripheral blood leukocytes . They are generated from granulocyte-macrophage progenitors in the bone marrow under the control of granulopoietic growth factors , primarily granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( G-CSF ) [10] . During acute infection , granulopoiesis is massively enhanced to comply with the increased demand for neutrophils in host defense [11] . Control mechanisms of this demand-adapted hematopoiesis involve long-distance regulatory feedback loops induced at the site of infection where neutrophils act , which is usually distant from the production site of neutrophils in the bone marrow . Increased release of G-CSF in response to infectious and/or inflammatory insult plays a key role in this process [11] . With the discovery of interleukin-17 ( IL-17 ) and the realization of its critical role in defense against mucocutaneous candidiasis [5 , 13] , it was postulated that IL-17 mediates protection by promoting the neutrophil response . Alternative candidate factors regulating the neutrophil response include IL-1 . Whether and how IL-1 cytokines contribute to antifungal defense in barrier tissues remains poorly defined . Using a mouse model of oropharyngeal candidiasis , we found that IL-1R signaling is critical for host defense by regulating the neutrophil response . Second , it induces G-CSF production by the endothelium for enhanced neutrophil output from the bone marrow to meet the increased demand in response to infection . albicans is critical for mediating this crosstalk between the epithelium and the endothelium in the oral mucosa .
9 billion treatments to nearly 600 million individuals via annual mass drug administration ( MDA ) of anti-filarial drugs ( albendazole , ivermectin , diethylcarbamazine ) to all at-risk for 4–6 years . To calculate the economic benefits , the number of clinical manifestations averted was first quantified and the savings associated with this disease prevention then analyzed in the context of direct treatment costs , indirect costs of lost-labor , and costs to the health system to care for affected individuals . Multiple data sources were reviewed , including published literature and databases from the World Health Organization , International Monetary Fund , and International Labour Organization An estimated US$21 . Of this total , over US$2 . 3 billion is realized by the protection of nearly 3 million newborns and other individuals from acquiring lymphatic filariasis as a result of their being born into areas freed of LF transmission . In addition to these economic benefits to at-risk individuals , decreased patient services associated with reduced LF morbidity saves the health systems of endemic countries approximately US$2 . Moreover , with favorable program implementation costs ( largely a result of the sustained commitments of donated drugs from the pharmaceutical industry ) it is clear that the economic rate of return of the GPELF is extremely high and that this Programme continues to prove itself an excellent investment in global health . As a leading cause of permanent and long-term disability worldwide , the parasitic infection lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) imposes a severe physical and socioeconomic burden on 1 . An estimated 120 million people are already infected with LF , with about 40 million suffering from overt clinical disease manifested as painful severe swelling due to lymphedema ( generally an accumulation of lymphatic fluid in the limbs ) and hydrocele ( fluid accumulation in the scrotal sac ) . To rid the world of this debilitating disease , the Global Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) was begun in 2000 to guide endemic countries in implementing single-dose , once-yearly mass drug administration ( MDA ) using a combination of either albendazole+ivermectin or albendazole+diethylcarbamazine ( DEC ) for an anticipated 4–6 years . Use of this effective strategy for LF elimination has become feasible because of the drug donations of albendazole and ivermectin from their pharmaceutical manufacturers , GlaxoSmithKline and Merck & Co . More than 6 million cases of hydrocele and 4 million cases of lymphedema have been prevented , resulting in over 32 million disability-adjusted life years ( DALYs ) averted and numerous quality-of-life benefits attained . Specifically , how much financial cost and loss of income is prevented over the lifetimes of individuals protected from LF due to the first 8 years of the GPELF ? And , what cost savings do national health systems realize from the reduction in LF infection and morbidity ? To date , few attempts have been made to examine LF from an economic perspective , particularly on a global level . Such data , however , is invaluable to policymakers , public health administrators , and program funders who may already be convinced that LF is a ‘best buy’ in global health but who lack precise estimates to support their conviction . This study offers such an economic analysis and estimates that following the first 8 years of the GPELF , US$21 .
Homozygous mutations in the glucocerebrosidase ( GBA ) gene result in Gaucher disease ( GD ) , the most common lysosomal storage disease . In contrast to the perinatal death in humans and mice lacking GCase activity , GBA-/- medaka survived for months , enabling analysis of the pathological progression . GBA-/- medaka displayed the pathological phenotypes resembling human neuronopathic GD including infiltration of Gaucher cell-like cells into the brains , progressive neuronal loss , and microgliosis . Unexpectedly , disruption of α-syn did not improve the life span , formation of axonal swellings , neuronal loss , or neuroinflammation in GBA-/- medaka . Mutations in GBA lead to decreased enzymatic activity of glucocerebrosidase ( GCase ) and result in the accumulation of its substrates , glucocerebroside and glucosylsphingosine[1 , 2] . GD is classically divided into three subtypes: a non-neuronopathic form ( type 1 ) , an acute neuronopathic form ( type 2 ) , and a subacute neuronopathic form ( type 3 ) . The most severe neuronopathic form , called the perinatal lethal type , has also been reported[4] . Common presentations of patients with the perinatal lethal type are hydrops fetalis and congenital ichthyosis . GBA has recently drawn considerable attention because heterozygous mutations in this gene confer a high risk for sporadic PD[5 , 6] . In addition , patients with type 1 GD also have an increased life-time risk of developing PD[7] . For example , deficiency in GCase enzymatic activity causes lysosomal dysfunction and α-syn accumulation[8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12] . Increased α-syn in turn creates a vicious cycle by inhibiting the trafficking of GCase to lysosomes , thus leading to decreased GCase activity in lysosomes[9] . Consistent with this notion , mouse models overexpressing α-syn and postmortem tissue from patients with PD show reduced GCase activity in the brains[13 , 14 , 15] . Medaka ( Oryzias latipes ) are a versatile vertebrate animal model for disease research . These fish are easy to handle , have a relatively short generation time ( 2–3 months ) , produce a large number of progeny per generation , and have several inbred strains[16] . Importantly , medaka have an advantage as an animal model of PD due to endogenous α-syn in contrast to invertebrate models that lack α-syn . Moreover , several genetic manipulations can be performed in medaka in addition to established transgenic techniques[17 , 18 , 19 , 20 , 21] . Here , we generated GBA nonsense mutant medaka and found that homozygous GBA nonsense mutant ( GBA-/- ) medaka are a viable neuronopathic GD model .
The capacity of L . monocytogenes to escape from the phagosome and enter the host cell cytosol is paramount for the induction of long-lived CD8 T cell–mediated protective immunity . monocytogenes confined within a phagosome is not merely a consequence of inefficient antigen presentation , but is the result of direct suppression of the adaptive response . This suppression limited not only the adaptive response to vacuole-confined L . monocytogenes , but negated the response to bacteria within the cytosol . monocytogenes prevented the generation of acquired immunity and limited expansion of antigen-specific T cells relative to the cytosolic L . Bacteria confined to a phagosome suppressed the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines and led to the rapid MyD88-dependent production of IL-10 . Blockade of the IL-10 receptor or the absence of MyD88 during primary infection restored protective immunity . monocytogenes has been studied for decades as a model of innate and cellular immunity [1] . Following engulfment by the host cell , L . monocytogenes escapes from the phagosome and into the host cell cytosol via secretion of the pore-forming cytolysin , listeriolysin O ( LLO ) [5] . Once within the cytosol , the bacteria express ActA that facilitates cell to cell spread via polymerization of host-cell actin [6] . monocytogenes into the cytosol permits bacterial growth and facilitates the MyD88-independent activation of a cytosolic surveillance pathway , leading to the production of a unique array of cytokines , including type I IFN [9]–[12] . monocytogenes , which contains ligands for multiple Toll-like receptors found on the cell surface and within the phagosome , only elicits effective adaptive immunity when entering the host cell cytosol [13] , [14] . monocytogenes contains ligands for TLR2 ( peptidoglycan , lipotechoic acid and lipoproteins ) , TLR5 ( flagellin ) , TLR9 ( CpG motifs ) , and NOD2 ( muramyl dipeptide ) , all of which may elicit proinflammatory cytokine secretion [17]–[22] . monocytogenes infection where they may contribute to bacterial persistence as well as T cell potency [26]–[28] . The innate response to these PRR-ligands also serves to shape the ensuing adaptive immune response [29] . Innate inflammatory cytokines produced in response to L . Maturation also facilitates migration of the DC into the draining lymph node where it can interact with large numbers of naïve T cells [32] . Together , the local cytokine milieu and dendritic cell maturation state significantly contribute to the outcome of the DC-T cell interaction and ultimately , the potency of the T cell response [33] . We questioned how the response to a bacterium confined within a phagosome would impact the adaptive response to a bacterium within the host cell cytosol . The first strain , ActA-Lm , escapes into the host cell cytosol and elicits long-lived CD8 T cell-dependent protective immunity [23] , [34] . Because it cannot spread between cells , ActA-Lm is highly attenuated in vivo , can be administered at a higher dose , and is rapidly cleared from both liver and spleen ( relative to wild-type L . monocytogenes challenge [7] , [8] . To facilitate enumeration of L . monocytogenes-specific CD8 and CD4 T cell responses following infection , we used strains expressing chicken ovalbumin ( OVA ) fused to a non-lytic fragment of LLO .
Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide . Primary open-angle glaucoma ( POAG ) is the most common subtype and is a complex trait with multigenic inheritance . These variants were tested in an in vivo Danio rerio ( zebrafish ) complementation assay to evaluate ocular metrics such as eye size and optic nerve structure . One variant in the SIX6 enhancer increased expression of SIX6 and disrupted its regulation . Our results , in combination with previous SIX6 work , lead us to hypothesize that SIX6 risk variants disrupt the development of the neural retina , leading to a reduced number of retinal ganglion cells , thereby increasing the risk of glaucoma-associated vision loss . Primary open-angle glaucoma ( POAG ) is the most common type of glaucoma , a group of diseases that affect approximately 60 million people worldwide and is a leading cause of blindness [1] . Glaucoma is characterized by the progressive death of retinal ganglion cells , leading to optic nerve atrophy and loss of vision . POAG is a complex inherited disorder for which an increasing number of genetic associations have been described , each contributing modestly to disease burden [2] , [3] . A recent POAG genome-wide association study found a significant genetic association ( rs10483727 , odds ratio ( OR ) = 1 . The human SIX gene family consists of six members ( SIX1–SIX6 ) , all of which contain two shared protein domains; a DNA binding homeobox domain and a SIX domain , which binds downstream effector molecules [10] , [11] . Members of this conserved gene family were originally identified through homology to the Drosophila melanogaster ( Drosophila ) sine oculis ( so ) gene , which is required for proper eye development [10] , [11] and are thought to function as transcription factors , regulating key developmental steps through a complex regulatory network . During embryonic development , SIX1 is expressed broadly in multiple tissues , including the otic vesicle and the limb mesenchyme . Drosophila with null so alleles have restricted retinal development , while morpholino knockdown of six6b in Danio rerio ( zebrafish ) embryos was recently shown to result in a small eye phenotype [10] , [13] . In humans , a large deletion on chromosome 14q22 . This analysis of 2–3 day old zebrafish embryos is not intended to fully recapitulate the glaucomatous phenotype; however , it provides in vivo data about the functional effects of human genetic variation on the human SIX6 protein in the context of eye development . We next used luciferase reporter assays , through which we show that a sequence variant found in the SIX6 enhancer of POAG patients may increase SIX6 expression . Finally , we demonstrate that POAG cases homozygous for the SIX6 risk allele rs33912345 have a significantly thinner retinal nerve fiber layer , suggesting a glaucomatous pathogenic mechanism driven by SIX6 dysfunction .
Thus , factors that regulate the expression of the flgB operon will likely impact toxin production in addition to flagellar motility . The flagellar switch , located upstream of the flgB operon containing the early stage flagellar genes , is a 154 bp invertible sequence flanked by 21 bp inverted repeats . Bacteria with the sequence in one orientation expressed flagellum and toxin genes , produced flagella , and secreted the toxins ( “flg phase ON” ) . Bacteria with the sequence in the inverse orientation were attenuated for flagellar and toxin gene expression , were aflagellate , and showed decreased toxin secretion ( “flg phase OFF” ) . The orientation of the flagellar switch is reversible during growth in vitro . We provide evidence that gene regulation via the flagellar switch occurs post-transcription initiation and requires a C . Lastly , through mutagenesis and characterization of flagellar phase locked isolates , we determined that the tyrosine recombinase RecV , which catalyzes inversion at the cwpV switch , is also responsible for inversion at the flagellar switch in both directions . Antibiotic use perturbs the gastrointestinal microbiota that normally protects against CDI [1 , 4] . The rates of recurrence and mortality associated with CDI have increased in part due to the emergence of epidemic-associated strains with enhanced sporulation rates and toxin production [1 , 5 , 6] . difficile PCR ribotype 027 group is associated with greater odds of diarrheal disease severity , outcome , and death compared to many other PCR ribotypes [7] . Therefore , an understanding of bacterial physiology and genetics in C . CDI ranges in severity from mild self-limiting diarrhea to fulminant colitis characterized by neutrophil infiltration into the lamina propria , erosion of crypts and goblet cells , and extensive epithelial tissue damage . Both TcdA and TcdB glucosylate Rho and Rac GTPases in host cells to promote actin depolymerization , destruction of tight junctions at the mucosal barrier , and inflammation [13–16] . Colonization is a requisite step to diarrheal disease , and the bacterial surface structures , such as flagella , that participate in colonization are an active area of study . The flagellar apparatus confers motility and contributes to adherence , colonization , and disease in C . As in other bacterial species , flagellar gene transcription occurs in a hierarchical order to ensure proper protein assembly and to conserve energy . The early stage flagellar operon contains genes for assembly of the basal body . SigD ( σD ) , the flagellar alternative sigma factor , is encoded in the early stage flagellar operon and activates the transcription of the late stage operons [22 , 23] . At least four operons contain late stage flagellar genes involved in assembly of the flagellar hook , filament , and cap , and for post-translational modification of the flagellar filament [18 , 22 , 24–26] . The flagellar apparatus contributes to C . difficile fitness during gastrointestinal infection in a ribotype-dependent manner [20] . difficile 630Δerm ( ribotype 012 ) , flagella are dispensable for adherence to cultured epithelial cells and colonization in the murine model [31 , 32] . Flagellar motility is not required for adherence in this strain , as a MotB mutant that produces flagellar filaments with a nonfunctional motor displays wild type adherence [31] . Interestingly , mice infected with the R20291 fliC mutant succumb to infection , whereas mice infected with the parental strain do not [31] . The R20291 fliC mutant has altered expression of genes involved in motility , membrane transport , sporulation , and metabolism in vitro [33] , which may explain the enhanced virulence in mice . Post-translational modification of flagella also contributes to colonization kinetics in a mouse relapse model of infection in M68 , an 017 ribotype strain [24] . In the hamster model , C . difficile 630Δerm strains with a mutation in several early stage flagellar genes showed reduced virulence , whereas C . Several groups have observed that a 630Δerm fliC mutant produces more toxin , which may contribute to the increased virulence of the mutant [22 , 31 , 32] . Notably , the expression of the glucosylating toxin genes is linked to flagellar gene expression in C . TcdA and TcdB are encoded on a Pathogenicity Locus ( PaLoc ) along with the TcdR sigma factor that positively regulates tcdA and tcdB [37] , the anti-sigma factor TcdC suggested to inhibit TcdR function [38–41] , and the TcdE holin-like protein suggested to be involved in toxin export [42 , 43] . Subsequent work identified a σD consensus sequence in the tcdR promoter [23 , 44] . Taken together , these studies highlight a regulatory link between virulence factors critical to host colonization and to disease symptom development in C . difficile flagellin and the glucosylating toxins stimulate pathogen recognition receptors [47–49] , which promote pathogen clearance mechanisms , and therefore their production must be subject to precise regulation to avoid host recognition . difficile , c-di-GMP regulates swimming motility , cytopathicity , Type IV-pilus dependent surface motility and biofilm formation [30 , 44 , 59 , 60] . Specifically , elevated c-di-GMP inhibits flagellar gene expression and swimming motility [59] , and also negatively regulates toxin gene expression as a result of reduced sigD transcription [44] . c-di-GMP binding to Cd1 causes premature transcription termination , resulting in a truncated transcript of 160 nt of the 5’ untranslated region [62] . We identified a flagellar switch consisting of 154 bp flanked by 21 bp imperfect inverted repeats , between the Cd1 riboswitch and the first open reading frame in the early stage flagellar operon . The orientation of the flagellar switch controls downstream flagellar gene expression , including sigD , and therefore production of flagella and swimming motility . We provide evidence that regulation through the flagellar switch occurs post-transcription initiation . difficile , thus identifying an additional level of regulation of these linked processes . difficile may confer an advantage to the bacterium during infection of the gastrointestinal tract as a bet hedging strategy to either promote colonization and inflammation as certain tissue sites or persist and evade host immune stimulation .
In the model organism Bacillus subtilis , gene expression in the forespore and in the mother cell , the two cells that participate in endospore development , is governed by cell type-specific RNA polymerase sigma subunits . subtilis paradigm . While the main periods of activity of the sigma factors are conserved , we show that the activity of σE is partially independent of σF , that σG activity is not dependent on σE , and that the activity of σK does not require σG . We also show that σK is not strictly required for heat resistant spore formation . Nevertheless , our results support the view that the top level of the endosporulation network is conserved in evolution , with the sigma factors acting as the key regulators of the pathway , established some 2 . Endosporulation is an ancient bacterial cell differentiation program that culminates with the formation of a highly resistant dormant cell , the endospore . subtilis , for example , a non-pathogenic sporeformer , can go through several cycles of growth , sporulation and germination in the GIT [5] . anthracis [6] . Also , it is a protein present at the spore surface that mediates spore internalization by macrophages , and spore dissemination to local lymph nodes , which are central to pathogenesis [6] , [7] . Infection by the intestinal human and animal pathogen C . difficile is the causative agent of an intestinal disease whose symptoms can range from mild diarrhea to severe , potentially lethal inflammatory lesions such as pseudomembraneous colitis , toxic megacolon or bowel perforation [8] , [10] . difficile can colonize the gut if the normal intestinal microbiota is disturbed [8] [9] . difficile can cause intestinal disease , it is unable to persist within and transmit between host organism [13] . The spore thus has a central role in persistence of the organism in the environment , infection , recurrence and transmission of the disease . Recent years have seen the emergence of strains , so called hypervirulent , linked to increased incidence of severe disease , higher relapse rates and mortality , and C . The basic spore plan is conserved [15]–[17] . The genome is deposited in a central compartment delimited by a lipid bilayer with a layer of peptidoglycan ( PG ) apposed to its external leaflet . This layer of PG , known as the germ cell wall , will serve as the wall of the outgrowing cell that forms when the spore completes germination . The germ cell wall is encased in a thick layer of a modified form of PG , the cortex , essential for the acquisition and maintenance of heat resistance [15] , [16] . The cortex is wrapped by a multiprotein coat , which protects it from the action of PG-breaking enzymes produced by host organisms or predators [15] , [16] . anthracis , B . cereus and C . difficile , the coat is further enclosed within a structure known as the exosporium . The coat and the exosporium , when present , mediate the immediate interactions of the spore with the environment , including the interaction with small molecules that trigger germination [7] , [15] , [18]–[20] . The process of spore differentiation has been extensively studied in the model organism B . subtilis [21] [22] . The mother cell then engulfs the forespore . This process , akin to phagocytosis and a hallmark of endosporulation , isolates the forespore from the surrounding medium , and releases it as a cell , surrounded by a double membrane , within the mother cell cytoplasm [21] , [22] . With the exception of the germ cell wall , which is formed from the forespore , the assembly of the main spore protective structures is mostly a function of the mother cell [15] , [16] . At the end of the process , and following a period of spore maturation , the mother cell undergoes autolysis , to release the finished spore . For the organisms that have been studied to date , mostly by transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) , this basic sequence of morphological events appears conserved [15] , [21] . A master regulatory protein , Spo0A , activated by phosphorylation , governs entry into sporulation , including the switch to asymmetric division [21] , [23] . Additional regulatory proteins , working with the sigma factors , generate feed forward loops ( FFLs ) that create waves of gene expression , minimizing transcriptional noise and impelling morphogenesis forward [17] . subtilis , distributed in the four cell type-specific regulons , participate in spore morphogenesis [24]–[27] . The FFLs show an intermediary level of conservation , with the “structural” genes , with the lower level of conservation , at the lowest level in the hierarchy [17] , [24]–[27] . acetobutylicum and C . perfringens [30] , [31] , [33] , [35] . perfringens and C . botulinum [29] , [34] . difficile for human health and activities , and the central role of sporulation in the infection cycle , a cytological and molecular description of sporulation has been lacking . In addition , by using a fluorescent reporter for studies of gene expression at the single cell level , we were able to correlate the expression and activity of the sporulation-specific sigma factors with the course of morphogenesis . Our study also provides a platform for additional studies of the regulatory network and for integrating the expression and function of the effector genes , many of which will be species-specific , and possibly related to host colonization and transmission .
We explore a framework to model the dose response of allosteric multisite phosphorylation proteins using a single auxiliary variable . Optimal ultrasensitivity is obtained when the activation of an allosteric protein by its individual sites is concerted and redundant . As an application we analyze a newly discovered checkpoint signaling pathway in budding yeast , which has been proposed to measure cell growth by monitoring signals generated at sites of plasma membrane growth . In particular , this system incorporates a signal proportional to bud growth or size , a mechanism to read the signal , and an all-or-none response triggered only when the signal reaches a threshold indicating that sufficient growth has occurred . Protein phosphorylation is a common form of post-translational modification frequently used in nature to alter protein activity , for instance by changing the electrostatic properties of the protein or its spatial structure . Many multisite proteins are involved in regulatory processes that can benefit from the presence of bistability , hysteresis , or limit cycles , which require sufficiently nonlinear interactions in addition to the right type of feedback [7] , [8] . Many detailed mechanisms have also been proposed to explain the role of multisite systems in the emergence of bistability ( for examples , see [14] , [15] ) . Systems that attempt to model biochemical reactions explicitly often use the assumption that the protein has two states , one active and one inactive , with a simple reaction to transform one into the other , effectively assuming that the protein only has one site . Under this framework one keeps track of the fraction of modified sites in the protein , and the concentration of active protein over time is estimated from this information . The MF framework can also be extended to other types of multisite modification such as ligand binding , multisite transcription factor regulation , multisite methylation or acetylation , ubiquitination , etc [19] , [20] . Perhaps the best way to test the versatility of a modeling tool such as the one proposed is to implement it in an actual biochemical system . Cell size checkpoints halt the cell cycle at specific points until sufficient cell growth has occurred [21] , [22] . The mechanisms by which cell size checkpoints operate are poorly understood , and it is unclear whether they monitor actual cell size or parameters more closely related to the extent or rate of growth . In budding yeast , growth of a new cell is initiated when a daughter bud is formed on the surface of the cell [23] . The daughter bud initially grows in a polar manner , with all growth directed to the bud tip . Growth of the bud eventually switches to isotropic growth , in which the bud grows over its entire surface ( see Figure 1A ) [24] . The timing of the switch determines the duration of polar growth , which influences cell size and shape . This checkpoint is the subject of our model . The variables are illustrated in Figure 1B and described in more detail below . A major advance of the current paper , beyond the application to the cell cycle checkpoint , is to extend this work to cooperative and allosteric systems . Such systems are by definition non-independent , since the modification of one site accelerates the rate of modification of its neighbors . In the remaining two Results sections we carry out a mathematical analysis of the proposed checkpoint signaling pathway . We hypothesize that this interaction pathway has the capacity to produce a bistable signal responsible for a sudden switch from polar to isotropic growth , once the bud has undergone sufficient polar growth .
