The ability of organs to maintain homeostasis and regenerate following injury is vital to an organism. Lung-resident mesenchymal stem and stromal cells ( MSCs ) are key elements of the alveolar niche and fundamental regulators of homeostasis and regeneration. In this study, we investigated how MSCs interact with epithelial cells and promote alveolar cell growth, differentiation, and self-renewal. We used a state-of-the-art model of human RSV infection in lamb. This showed that RSV invades and activates MSCs, which resulted in a robust activation, characterized by strong antiviral and pro-inflammatory phenotype combined with mediators related to T cell function. Furthermore, the global transcriptional response of MSCs appears to follow RSV disease, switching from an early antiviral signature to repair mechanisms including differentiation, tissue remodeling, and angiogenesis. These findings demonstrate the involvement of MSCs during virus-induced acute lung injury and may have therapeutic implications. Despite intense research on MSCs, no information is available about their role during acute respiratory infection and their contribution following virus-induced injury. We hypothesize that this applies during virus-mediated acute lung injury and may have therapeutic implications.
Visceral leishmaniasis ( VL ) is endemic in South Sudan, where it causes severe anaemia and sometimes pancytopenia. The disease affects the lymphatic and reticuloendothelial system, and patients typically present with fever, malaise, weight loss and anorexia. However, there is little evidence about how the immune system interacts with Leishmania infection during pregnancy. In this study, we used routine programme data from a health facility in Lankien, Jonglei State, South Sudan. We included 113 women diagnosed with VL in pregnancy, and 223 non-pregnant women with VL. Women with VL in pregnancy were more likely to need blood transfusion and were more often prescribed antibiotics. Adverse pregnancy outcomes, including miscarriage and premature delivery, were reported in 20% of women with VL in pregnancy, and 50% 13/26 where VL was diagnosed postpartum. Postpartum haemorrhage was common. Pregnant women were more likely to require extension of treatment to achieve cure, but overall initial cure rates were high ( 96. 5% ) and mortality was low ( 1. 8% ). Our results suggest that good maternal survival rates are possible in resource-limited settings, despite the high incidence of complications.
Typhoid fever is a systemic febrile illness caused by Salmonella enterica serovar Typhi ( S. Typhi ), which causes severe diarrhea and death in humans. The disease has been reported from urban informal settlements in sub-Saharan Africa, but little is known about the introduction of these strains to the region. In this study, we sequenced genomes of typhoid isolates from Kibera, Kenya, over a 12-year period. We found that the predominant genotype of S. Typhi was associated with multidrug resistance ( MDR ) genes, while some were also resistant to ampicillin, chloramphenicol and co-trimoxazole. There were no determinants associated with resistance to cephalosporins or azithromycin detected among the isolates sequenced in this study. Plasmid markers were only identified in the main clade, including IncHI1A and IncHI1B ( R27 ) in 226 ( 72. 9% ) isolates, and IncQ1 in 238 ( 76. 8% ) isolates. This suggests that S. Typhi in Kibera belong to four wgMLST clades, one of which is frequently associated with MDR genes. The most recent common ancestor for these isolates was from around 1997. Another isolate from Kibera grouped with several isolates from Uganda, sharing a common ancestor from around 2009. The most recently common ancestor for these isolates was from around 1997. Several genomes from Kibera formed a clade with genomes from Kenya, Malawi, South Africa, and Tanzania. The most recent common ancestor for these isolates was from around 1997. Another isolate from Kibera grouped with several isolates from Uganda, sharing a common ancestor from around 2009. Molecular clock analysis of global typhoid isolates and isolates from Kibera suggests that genotype 4. 3. 1 has been introduced multiple times in Kibera. Interestingly, the proportion of isolates harboring MDR determinants increased after a decline in S. Typhi in Kibera. The majority of isolates harboring MDR determinants were not associated with cephalosporins or azithromycin. Overall, this study provides insight into how the genetic epidemiology of S. Typhi affects treatment and control of patients with typhoid fever.
The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has resulted in over 5 million deaths worldwide in two years. Although vaccines are available, too few have been administered globally to keep the virus in check and prevent mutations leading to immune escape. To determine if antibodies could be identified with universal coronavirus activity, plasma from convalescent subjects was screened for IgG against a stabilized pre-fusion SARS-CoV-2 spike S2 domain. From these subjects, several S2-specific human monoclonal antibody ( hmAbs ) were developed that neutralized SARS-CoV-2 with recognition of all variants of concern ( VoC ) tested ( Beta, Gamma, Delta, Epsilon, Omicron VoC ). 1249A8 emerged as the most potent and broad S2-specific hmAb, able to recognize all human -coronavirus and neutralize SARS-CoV-2 and MERS-CoV. 1249A8 delivered as a single 4 mg/kg intramuscular dose to hamsters 12 hours following infection with SARS-CoV-2 Delta protected them from weight loss, with therapeutic activity further enhanced when combined with 1213H7, an S1-specific neutralizing hmAb. As little as 2 mg/kg of 1249A8 i. n. dose 12 hours after infection with SARS-CoV-2 Urbani strain, protected hamsters from weight loss and significantly reduced upper and lower respiratory viral burden. These results indicate in vivo cooperativity between S1 and S2 specific neutralizing hmAbs and can guide universal coronavirus vaccine development. ## Summary for a layman : SARS-CoV-2 is the third known emergence of a coronavirus with the ability to cause substantial human morbidity and mortality in the last two decades. Although vaccines are available, too few have been administered worldwide to keep the virus in check and to prevent mutations leading to immune escape. To determine if antibodies could be identified with universal coronavirus activity, plasma from convalescent subjects was screened for IgG against a stabilised pre-fusion SARS-CoV-2 spike S2 domain, which is highly conserved between human -coronavirus and SARS-CoV-2. From these subjects, several S2-specific human monoclonal antibodies ( hmAbs ) were developed that neutralized SARS-CoV-2 with recognition of all variants of concern ( VoC ) tested ( Beta, Gamma, Delta, Epsilon, Omicron VoC. 1249A8 emerged as the most potent and broad S2-specific hmAb, able to recognise all human -coronavirus and neutralize SARS-CoV-2. Several S2-specific hmAbs were developed that neutralized SARS-CoV-2 with recognition of all variants of concern ( VoC ) tested ( Beta, Gamma, Delta, Epsilon, Omicron VoC. 1249A8 delivered as a single 4 mg/kg intramuscular dose to hamsters 12 hours following infection with SARS-CoV-2 Delta protected them from weight loss, with therapeutic activity further improved when combined with 1213H7, an S1-specific neutralizing hmAb. As little as 2 mg/kg of 1249A8 i. n. dose 12 hours following infection with SARS-CoV-2 Urbani strain, protected hamsters from weight loss and significantly reduced Upper and Lower Respiratory Virion Burden. These findings indicate in vivo cooperation between S1 and S2 specific neutralizing hmAbs and that potent universal coronavirus neutralizing mAbs with therapeutic potential can be induced in humans and can guide universal coronavirus vaccine development.
The yeast Candida parapsilosis metabolizes carbon dioxide and other gases by catalyzing the degradation of two biochemical pathways: the 3-oxoadipate pathway and the 4-hydroxybenzoate pathway. These processes are usually nonessential but in specific circumstances they may provide a growth benefit for the host organism. In this study, we investigate how these metabolic pathways are coordinated with each other. We show that genes coding for enzymes and plasma membrane transporters involved in the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways are highly upregulated and their expression is controlled in a substrate-specific manner. However, regulatory proteins involved in this process are not known. Using the knockout mutant CLIB214, we demonstrate that putative transcription factors encoded by the genes OTF1 and GTF1 located within these gene clusters function as transcriptional activators of the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways. Our results also highlight differences between the cell responses to hydroxybenzoates and hydroxybenzenes. This finding is consistent with the phenotype of the Otf1p-lacking mutant whose impaired growth on hydroxybenzoates, but still utilizes hydroxybenzenes, thus suggesting additional, yet unidentified transcription factor could be involved in the 3-oxoadipate pathway regulation. Finally, our analysis highlights evolutionary paths leading to metabolic adaptations of yeast cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic substrates.
The human brain is a complex network of neurons that connects the nervous system to other parts of the body. It has been used for many years to study how humans communicate and remember information, but it has not yet fully understood how the brain works. To understand how the brain functions, researchers need to build models that are computationally-relevant. In this paper, we develop a method that trains biologically detailed neural networks that perform cognitive tasks. We use four different neuron model models, each with specific features, and show that the model can be trained to achieve the desired results. These models are similar in their ability to simulate the behavior of neurons, but they have limited biological details. This means that the model cannot be built from simple models. Instead, it must be constructed using biologically detailed components. For example, the model can be made from several types of cells, including pyramidal cells, inhibitory interneurons, or fast-spiking interneurons. However, the model can also be built from multiple types of neurons, such as neurons that are connected by conductance-based synapses. This allows scientists to investigate the relationship between biophysical properties and functional capabilities. In addition, the model can be used to train a variety of cognitive processes, including working memory, communication, multiplication, harmonic oscillation, and gated working memory. The results demonstrate that osNEF can be applied to a wide range of neural systems, and open new avenues for investigating the relationships between biological features and cognitive capacity.
Down syndrome ( DS ) is the most common genetic form of intellectual disability caused by trisomy of human chromosome 21 ( HSA21 ). This causes intellectual disabilities that affect all tissues and cells, including brains, eyes, ears, nose, legs, feet, and hands. The disease can be fatal if not treated properly. It is thought that the trisomy of HSA21 leads to an increase in gene expression, which could lead to a reduction in the number of genes that are required for normal functioning. However, it has been suggested that this may also occur in other tissue types, such as liver or kidney. In order to understand how the genome-wide deregulation of HSA21 results in DS, researchers need to know how the different tissues are affected. To do so, they must first identify genes that are more consistently deregulated than others. These genes are then combined with proteins that interact with each other, which can make them more likely to be deregulated. One way to find out how these changes are occurring is to integrate all available transcriptomic data into one network. We used a method called “metaDEA” to combine all the information from all publicly available datasets. By using our methodology, we found that the gene set deregulation was consistent across all studies, but that the same genes were more frequently deregulated in different tissues. Our findings suggest that DS might diverge in each tissue due to the different gene sets deregulation. We created a user-friendly web application to query Ensembl gene IDs and retrieve their differential expression data across the datasets. We also created a user-friendly web application to query Ensembl gene IDs and retrieve all the information of their differential expression across the datasets. ## Summary for a layman : Down syndrome ( DS ) is the most common genetic disorder caused by the complete or partial trisomy of HSA21. It is the most common genetic condition in humans, and it is the leading cause of dementia worldwide. However, it remains unclear whether the effect of the trisomy might diverge in each tissue due to the different gene set deregulation. We created a new R package that uses our method to integrate every kind of transcriptomic data. This would allow us to use it with other complex disorders, such as cancer. ## The authors have now developed a tool that allows users to search for genes that are deregulated in different tissues. ## The author's work is published in Nature Medicine.
Neuronal oscillations are transient phase-locked events produced by stimuli, movement and cognitive operations. These two phenomena are usually studied separately but there is a possibility to unite them by showing that neuronal oscillations have non-zero mean which predicts that stimulus- or task-triggered amplitude modulation of oscillations can contribute to the generation of evoked responses. We validated this mechanism using computational modelling and analysis of a large EEG data set. With a biophysical model, we observed evidence for non-zero mean of oscillations in 93% of participants. In order to explain a complex relationship between the dynamics of amplitude-envelope and corresponding baseline shifts, we performed additional simulations with simple oscillators coupled with different time delays. We demonstrated that spatial synchronisation may obscure macroscopic estimation of alpha rhythm modulation while leaving baseline shifts unchanged. Overall, our results suggest that amplitude modulation of neural oscillations should at least partially explain the generation of evoked responses. Therefore, inference about changes in evoked responses with respect to cognitive conditions, age or neuropathologies should be constructed while taking into account oscillatory neuronal dynamics. ## Summary for a layman.
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever virus ( CCHFV ) is a tick-borne virus that can cause a hemorrhagic fever in humans. It has been shown to infect numerous cell types, including mononuclear cells, epithelial cells, and hepatocytes. However, CCHFV has also been found to infect several animal hosts, including cattle and goats. Although it was discovered over 70 years ago, our understanding of the pathogenesis remains limited. In this study, we used RNA-Seq in two human liver cell lines ( HepG2 and Huh7 ) infected with CCHFV, to examine kinetic changes in host expression and viral replication simultaneously at 1 and 3 days post infection. Through this, numerous host pathways were identified that were modulated by the virus including: antiviral response and endothelial cell leakage. Notably, PTPRR was induced in Huh7 cells but not HepG2 cells. This has been associated with the TLR9 signalling cascade, and polymorphisms in TLR9 have been associated with poor outcomes in patients. Additionally, we performed whole-genome sequencing on CCHFV to assess viral diversity over time, and its relationship to the host response. As a result, we have demonstrated that through next-generation mRNA deep-sequencing it is possible not only examine mRNA gene expression, but also to examine viral quasispecies and typing of the infecting strain. This demonstrates a proof-of-principle that CCHFV specimens can be analyzed to identify both the virus and host biomarkers that may have implications for prognosis. ## Summary for a layman's dictionary.
Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder that affects more than half of the population worldwide. People with schizophrenia have reduced ability to remember information, which can lead to problems in their daily life. The brain processes and manipulates information to control how people behave. However, it remains unclear whether the cognitive deficits caused by schizophrenia are related to decreased memory capacity. In this study, we measured the performance of 60 SZ ( 31 females ) and 61 HC ( 29 females ) in visual working memory tasks. We found that the model assuming variable precision ( VP ) across items and trials is the best model to explain the performance of both groups. This finding was further validated using distinct visual features and subject cohorts. These results provide an alternative view instead of the widely accepted decrease-capacity theory and highlight the key role of elevated resource allocation variability in generating atypical VWM behavior in schizophrenia. Our findings also shed new light on the utility of Bayesian observer models to characterize mechanisms of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience. Despite the confound of different VWM components as the possible pathological cause, it remains unclear whether SZ or HC employ the same computational strategies. We believe that the well-controlled tasks and thorough computational modeling will shed new light on the mechanism of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience. Our findings also shed new light on the usefulness of Bayesian observation models to characterize mechanisms of mental deficits in clinical neuroscience.
The HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein ( Env ) is the key component of viral entry and evasion of the host immune response. Its role in virus-cell membrane fusion is well understood, but it has been unclear how this protein can overcome its fitness cost. Here, we have identified an HIV-1 variant that supports >300% increased viral infectivity in the presence of autologous or heterologous plasma. However, in the absence of HIV-positive plasma, viruses with this Env were reduced infectivity. Intriguingly, antibodies that bind cluster I epitopes on gp41 overcome this inhibitory effect, restoring infectivity to wild-type levels. We further demonstrate that the Q563R change increases HIV-1 sensitivity to broadly neutralizing antibody ( bNAbs ) targeting the gp41 membrane-proximal external region ( MPER ). These data contribute to our understanding of gp41 residues involved in membrane fusion and identify a mechanism by which host factors can alleviate a viral defect. This study highlights a phenomenon whereby specific escape variants result in a fitness cost, but the viral defect is surprisingly alleviated in the presence of specific antiviral factors. In summary, we identify an HIV-1 Env variant with impaired infectivity whose Env functionality is restored through the binding of host antibodies. These results contribute to our understanding of gp41 residues involved in membrane fusion and identify a mechanism by which host factors can alleviate a viral defect.
The development of new methods for identifying cancer subtypes is becoming increasingly important. However, the lack of intuitive and easy-to-use analytical tools has posed a barrier. In this paper, we developed a web server that allows users to explore consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers based on eight clustering methods, five types of omics data from public reference datasets or users’ private data, and three consensus clustering approaches. This allows researchers to examine consensus molecular subtypes of more than 30 cancers based on eight clustering methods, five types of omics data from public reference datasets or users’ private data, and three consensus clustering methods. The web server provides interactive visualization, and publishable output of analysis results. Researchers can also exchange consensus subtype results with collaborators via project IDs. COMSUC is now publicly available and freely available with no login requirement. It is now publicly and freely available with no login requirement. COMSUC is now publicly and freely available with no login requirement at  bioinforai. tech/. COMSUC is now publicly and freely available with no login requirement. For a video summary of this web server, see S1 Video and S1 File. COMSUC is now publicly and freely available with no login requirement. For a video summary of this web server, see S1 Video and S1 File. COMSUC is now publicly and freely available with no login requirement.
Ticks are a group of ectoparasites that feed on blood and live in moist habitats. One such species is the seabird tick ( Ixodes uriae ), which is widely distributed around the circumpolar regions of the northern and southern hemispheres. It has been suggested that Ix. uriae spread from the southern to the northern circumpolar region millions of years ago and has remained isolated in these areas ever since. However, it was not clear whether viruses associated with ticks exhibit the same evolutionary patterns as their hosts. Here, we collected Ix. uriae specimens near a penguin colony at Neko harbour, Antarctica, and from migratory birds—the Razorbill ( Alca torda ) and the Common murre ( Uria aalge )—on Bonden island, northern Sweden. We identified 16 RNA viruses, seven of which were novel. Notably, we detected the same species, Ronne virus, and two closely related species, Bonden virus and Piguzov virus, in both hemispheres indicating that there have been at least two cross-circumpolar dispersal events. In marked contrast, our phylogenetic analysis revealed no movement of the Ix. uriae tick hosts between the same locations. By combining phylogenetic and geographical information—that is, phylogeography—it is possible to infer the spatial and evolutionary relationships among such sub-populations. The analyses of these populations may include inferences on the direction of dispersal between subpopulations and if there have been multiple introductions into a particular geographic region. By combining phylogenetic and geographical information—that is, phylogeography—it is possible to infer the spatial and evolutionary relationship between such sub-populations. By combining phylogenetic and geographical information—that is, phylogeography—it is possible to infer the spatial and evolutionary relationships among such sub-populations. Combined, these data suggest that migratory birds are responsible for the movement of viruses at both local and global scales. Using this approach, we can identify the location of the dispersal event and determine whether the pathogens are moving at both local and global scales. This could help scientists understand how the evolution of the host species is evolving.
Meiotic recombination is an essential biological process that ensures faithful chromosome segregation and promotes parental allele shuffling. The first round ( meiosis I ) of meiosis involves two successive rounds of cell division, where the two sets of sister chromatids duplicate, pair and swap genetic material, and then segregate into two daughter cells. In the next round ( meiosis II ), the two pairs of sister chromatids separate into different gamete cells to reduce the total chromosome number by half. The four gametes resulting from these two rounds of cell division are collectively called a tetrad. In most species, accurate homologous chromosome segregation relies on sister chromatid cohesion in combination with meiotic crossovers ( COs ) that are reciprocal exchanges of chromosome arms. These meiotic crossovers result from the repair by homologous recombination of meiotic prophase-induced DNA doubles strand breaks ( DSBs ). Both COs and NCOs shuffle parental genetic materials, which promotes the genetic robustness and phenotypic potential of the offspring gene pool. However, the power and resolution for analyzing meiotic recombination landscapes across a large number of gametes is limited. RecombineX is a generalized computational framework that automates the full workflow of marker identification, gamete genotyping, recombination profiling, and tetrad-based recombination profiling based on any organism or genetic background with batch processing capability. It also includes a dedicated module for simulating the genomes and reads of recombinant tetrads, which facilitates fine-tuned simulation-based hypothesis testing. RecombineX also includes a dedicate module for simulating the genomes and reads of recombinant tetrads, which enables fine-tuned simulation-based hypothesis testing. RecombineX also includes a dedicated module for simulating the genomes and reads of recombinant tetrads, which enables fine-tuned simulation-based hypothesis testing. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangements that were not noticed before. This exemplify the occasional genome instability triggered by meiotic recombination. Moreover, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford nanopore sequencing revealed two unexpected structural rearrangement events that were not noticed before. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangements that were not noticed before. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangements that were not noticed before. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangements that were not noticed before. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangements that were not noticed before. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangements that were not noticed before. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangements that were not noticed before. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangements that were not noticed before. Interestingly, our re-analysis of the budding yeast tetrad sequencing data with RecombineX and Oxford Nanopore sequencing revealed two unusual structural rearrangements that were not noticed before. Interestingly, our re
The APOBEC3 locus is unique to placental mammals, and has undergone dramatic expansion in many mammalian lineages. These include seven A3 paralogs ( A3A, A3B, A3C, A3D, A3F, A3G ). This gene family encodes three single deaminase domain A3s ( A3A, A3C, A3H, A3B, A3C, and A3H ) and four double deaminase domain A3s ( A3B, A3D, A3F, and A3G ). However, it is not clear whether these two A3 domains have an overall advantage to restrict HIV-1 infection. In order to test whether these A3 domains could be created by genetically linking single A3 domains into synthetic double domains, we linked A3C and A3H single domains in novel combinations. We found that A3C/A3H double domains are more efficient than their respective single domain counterparts, but do not increase the activity of their respective single domain counterparts. Although these synthetic double domain A3s package into budding virions more efficiently than their respective single domain counterparts, this does not fully explain their gain of antiviral potency. The antiviral activity is conferred both by cytidine-deaminase dependent and independent mechanisms, with the latter correlating to an increase in RNA binding affinity. T cell lines expressing this A3C-A3H super restriction factor control replicating HIV-1Vif infection to similar levels as A3G. Together, these data show that novel combination of A3 domains are capable of gaining potent antiviral activity to levels similar to the most potent genome-encoded A3s. This study shows that novel combinations of A3 domains can be created that are as potent as the most potent genome-encoded A3 proteins. ## Summary for a layman. —Johannes, Sánchez, Garza, Largo, Garcia, Lemón, Colombo, Navarro, Cámara, Pérez, Giroux et al.. – APOBEC3 ( A3 ), A3A, A3C, A3H, A3C, A3H, A3C, A3C, A3G, A3C, A3C, A3H, A3C, A3C, A3G, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A3C, A
Cancer is a disease that affects millions of people worldwide. It has been estimated that the number of cancer cases in the world each year is about one million, and this means that it is difficult to predict how many patients will develop. However, it is important to understand how cancer evolves, and how these changes are made. To do so, scientists need to know how the tumour grows and survives. This information can be used to identify mutations that cause cancer, or to determine whether the tumor’s growth patterns change over time. In order to better understand how cancer evolution works, researchers must first learn how the genetic architecture of the tumour influences its development. Then, they need to build models of evolution that accurately classify and quantify the evolutionary dynamics in the tumour population. These models can then be reused for other tasks, such as studying the evolution of the patient. Now, et al. have developed a synthetic supervised learning method called TumE, which uses simulated data from tumour biopsies to generate predictions of evolution. By using TumE, scientists were able to capture the signatures of selection in tumours, and then use them to estimate subclonal populations. This was achieved by generating simulated data from tumours and applying TumE to real tumours. The results show that TumE significantly improves both accuracy and inference time per sample when detecting positive selection, deconvoluting selected subclonal populations, and estimating subclone frequency. Importantly, TumE also provides a library of recyclable deep learning models for the benefit of cancer genomics and, in turn, the cancer patient. This extensible framework provides a foundation and future directions for harnessing progressive computational methods for the benefit of cancer genomics and, in turn, the cancer patient. This extensible framework provides a foundation and future directions for harnessing progressive computational methods for the benefit of cancer genomics and, in turn, the cancer patient.
The endemic disease of African trypanosomiasis ( HAT ) is caused by the transmission of parasites of the genus Trypanosoma. In Chad, HAT/AAT are endemic. This study investigates the diversity and distribution of trypanosomes in humans and cattle, and in their biological vector, tsetse flies. Tsetse control activities in Mandoul reduced the tsetse population and thus the pathogenic parasites. However, T. brucei gambiense, T. congolense, T. godfreyi, and T. grayi were frequent in cattle suggesting transmission by other insect vectors. Furthermore, in Maro, transhumance to/from Central African Republic and no tsetse control may have led to the high diversity and frequency of trypanosomes observed including HAT/AAT pathogenic species. Finally, this study should be expanded to other trypanosome hosts to capture the whole diversity of circulating trypanosomes. In addition, the diverse trypanosome species in humans and cattle indicate the necessity to investigate the infectivity of the unknown trypanosomes regarding their zoonotic potential. Finally, this study should be widerened to other trypanosome hosts to capture the whole diversity of circulating trypanosomes.
Schistosomes are parasitic flatworms that cause chronic and acute intestinal or urogenital schistosomiasis. In tropical and subtropical regions it is thought that 143 million people are infected with schistosomes, with an estimated 24 thousand people dying each year from related pathology ( IHME; Global Burden Disease ). The genus Schistosoma haematobium diverged approximately 22 million years ago. Inter-species hybridization occurs between certain species that can cause important public health and veterinary issues. In particular hybrids between S. haematobium and S. bovis associated with humans and animals respectively are frequently identified in Africa. Recent genomic evidence indicates that some S. haematobium populations show signatures of genome introgression from S. bovis. Here, we conducted a genomic comparative study and investigated the genetic relationships between S. haematobium isolates originating from a wide geographical range over Africa. We found that all isolates from the S. haematobium cluster except the isolate from Madagascar harbored signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. All isolates from the S. haematobium cluster except the isolate from Madagascar harbored signatures of genomic introgression from S. bovis. Isolates from Corsica, Mali and Egypt harbored the S. bovis-like Invadolysin gene, which has been previously detected in some introgressed S. haematobium populations from Niger. Together our results highlight the fact that introgression from S. haematobium is widespread across S. haematobium and that the observed introgression is unidirectional. This is a fascinating evolutionary phenomenon that raises the question of how species maintain their integrity. In this context, we developed 56, 181 SNPs that allowed a clear differentiation of S. haematobium isolates from a genomic cluster including all S. haematobium isolates and a natural S. haematobium-bovis hybrid. Together our findings highlight the fact that introgression from S. haematobium is widespread across S. haematobium and that the observed introgression is unidirectional. ## Summary for a layman.
The human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is transmitted by the immune system through its host’s mucosal cells. In humans, it can be found in the gut and the colon. It has two subclasses of IgA: IgA1 and IgA2. Both are highly abundant antibodies that form complexes with antigens. However, the presence of IgA in colorectal tissue is not known. To study how IgA interacts with mucosal barriers, we used PET imaging to investigate the role of IgA in protection against rectal challenge. We then applied a fluorescently labeled antibody to detect viral particles in the intestinal tract. Our results show that IgA rapidly disseminate throughout the colon two hours after exposure. This resulted in an increase in virions and penetration depth in the transverse colon. Furthermore, virions were found in the mesenteric lymph nodes two hours after viral exposure. Taken together, these technologies enable in vivo and in situ visualization of antibody-virus interactions and detailed investigations of early events in HIV infection. Using this approach, we found that IgA antibodies and viral particles can spread throughout the colon and in a subset of mesenteric lymph nodes. These findings could lead to improved protective therapies and vaccines. Moreover, our data also validate our combined PET imaging and fluorescent microscopy methods for monitoring antibody-virus interaction and detailed investigation of early events in HIV infection. ## Summary for a layman.  2016 Wiley Periodicals. All rights reserved.
The brain is a complex organ that processes information, and it is important to understand how the system works. Understanding the relationship between biological signals is essential for understanding pathophysiology. This is achieved by using transfer functions ( TFs ), which are used to extract the signal from two time series. These TFs can be extracted from data, but they can also solve general problems in signal analysis. In this paper, Aydin et al. developed Iliski, a software that provides TF extraction tools for neural activity and hemodynamics. It includes different pre-treatment routines and TF computation processes. We applied Iliski to neurovascular coupling, an ensemble of cellular mechanisms linking neurons to changes in blood flow. The results showed that Iliski has the potential to improve the quality of the computational TFs. However, it also offers caveats, such as the fact that it does not have any priori assumptions about its shape. For example, it may cause errors in the estimation of the TF. Moreover, it can be difficult to select the best algorithm for the task. Here, Aydin et al. developed Iliski, a software that allows users to choose the optimal method according to their dataset. It is available under the open-source license CC BY 4. 0 on GitHub. It is available under the open-source license CC BY 4. 0 on GitHub. It is available under the open-source license CC BY 4. 0 on GitHub.
Zika virus is transmitted from mother to child in the womb. The infection can cause severe symptoms such as fever, skin rashes, conjunctivitis and headache. Infection with the mosquito Zika virus causes an infant to develop Congenital Zika Syndrome ( CZS ), which affects the ability of an infant to feed properly. This illness is caused by the transmission of the virus from one parent to another. There is no current evidence of transmission via breast milk. However, there is a risk of transmission through breastfeeding if the pregnant mother has or contracts the Zika virus during pregnancy. A 2017 systematic review described three cases of Zika-infected mothers who were symptomatic within three days of delivery, and two cases with Zika-infected newborns. The review concluded that although Zika was detected in the breast milk of all three mothers, the data were not sufficient to conclude Zika transmission via breastfeeding. The authors stated that more evidence was needed to distinguish breastfeeding transmission from other perinatal transmission routes. The WHO then approved expansion of this qualitative evidence synthesis to the values and preferences of pregnant women, mothers, their families, health care workers and service providers concerning: infant feeding options ( breastfeeding, use of breastmilk substitutes or mixed feeding with both breastmilk and breastmilk substitutes ) when there are feeding difficulties in infants with congenital anomalies ( e. g. microcephaly ). This evidence was directly relevant to the problem. The authors’ findings ranged from low to moderate. The evidence base has limitations, but consistently reported that parents of children with feeding difficulties due to Congenital Zika Syndrome ( CZS ) need information, advice and counselling, and substantial emotional support. Parents perceive that these needs are often neither recognised nor satisfied; optimal feeding and support strategies for this population have not yet been identified. Now, Leal et al. have conducted a qualitative evidence synthesis of the values and preferences of relevant stakeholders ( e. g. pregnant women, mothers, family members and health practitioners ) regarding infant feeding in the context of Zika virus. The authors’ findings were extracted, synthesised using thematic synthesis techniques, and confidence in most findings ranged from low to moderate. The evidence base has limitations, but consistent reports that parents of children with feeding difficulties due to Congenital Zika Syndrome ( CZS ) need information, advice and counseling, and substantial emotional support. Parents perceive that these needs are often neither recognized nor satisfied; optimal feeding and support strategies for this population have not yet been identified.
The innate immune system is made up of cells that are capable of responding to the environment and other environments. In order to protect against infection, the body must be equipped with an arsenal of antigens. This includes proteins called HIV Env, which can be used as immunogenic agents. However, there are currently no viable vaccine solutions for this virus. There are several different approaches to immunization based on the ability to present these antibodies. Here, we describe how a novel approach to multivalent presentation of viral glycoproteins, known as nanoparticles, could be applied to the display of HIV Env. We found that tetrahedral nanoparticles were highly effective in presenting HIV Env, but the optimal application was not yet achieved. These findings suggest that tetrahedral nanoparticles can be successfully presented in various immunization strategies. However, the optimal implementation to different immunization strategies remains to be determined. To address this question, Weir et al. developed two-component nanoparticles, displaying trimeric HIV envelope glycoprotein ( Env ) ectodomains. They then tested the properties of the Nanoparticle Immunogens, demonstrating their structural and antigenic properties. When the Neutralizing antibody binding titers were elevated in rabbits, they showed similar expression of the Antigen Trimer component. Neutralizing antibody titers were slightly higher in animals given the nanoparticle immunogen. Altogether, our results indicate that tetrahedral nanoparticles can be successfully applied for presentation of HIV Env trimer immunogens; however, the optimal implementation to different immunization strategies remains to be determined.
Pseudorabies virus ( PRV ) is an alphaherpesvirus that infects a wide range of vertebrates including its natural host swine. The viral genome encodes more than 70 functional proteins and has been shown to target the cGAS-STING axis for immune evasion. However, it remains unclear whether or how PRV encoded proteins modulate this pathway for immune evasion. Here, we show that PRV tegument protein UL13 inhibits STING-mediated antiviral signaling via regulation of STING stability. Mechanistically, UL13 interacts with STING and recruits the E3 ligase RING finger protein 5 ( RNF5 ) to promote K27-/K29-linked ubiquitination and degradation of STING. In addition, deficiency of RNF5 enhances host antiviral responses triggered by PRV infection. We also find that mutant PRV lacking UL13 impaired in antagonism of STING-mediated production of type I IFNs and shows attenuated pathogenicity in mice. Our findings suggest that PRV UL13 functions as an antagonist of IFN signaling via a novel mechanism by targeting STING to persistently evade host antiviral responses. Despite these findings, the roles and mechanisms of PRV encoded proteins targeting STING-STING pathways remain largely unknown.
Arthropod-borne viruses ( arboviruses ) are transmitted by arthropod vectors among vertebrate hosts. However, the ability of a mosquito to acquire and maintain an infection is crucial for its survival. Temperatures can have a wide range of effects on the host environment, with optimal conditions occurring at some intermediate temperature. In addition, the mean and range of daily temperature fluctuations influence arbovirus persistence and population dynamics. The impact of temperature on arbovirus genetic diversity during systemic mosquito infection is poorly understood. Here, we investigated how constant extrinsic incubation temperatures of 25°C, 28°C, 32°C, and 35°C control Zika virus ( ZIKV ) transmission and populations within Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes. We found that constant temperatures more often elicited positive selection while fluctuating temperatures led to strong purifying selection in both Aedes species. These findings demonstrate that temperature has multiple impacts on arbovirus biology, including major effects on the selective environment within mosquitoes. Using next-generation sequencing ( NGS ) to characterize ZIKV population structure, we identified that temperature alters the selectivity of the selected environment in unexpected ways. Consistent temperatures more often elicited positive selection whereas fluctuating temperatures led to stronger purifying selection in both Aedes species. This finding suggests that temperature has multiple impacts on arbovirus biology, including major effects on the selective environment within mosquitoes. ## Summary for a layman.
Odorants are chemicals that can be detected by the nervous system. However, they are not always present in the same way. In a natural environment, odorants can signal food or other objects. The nervous system of animals is well-defined, and it has been used to study how the nervous system processes signals from two different odorants. To understand how the nervous system works, researchers have studied how the nervous system detects odorants. For example, a fruit fly releases an attractive odorant called 2-nonanone. This attracts worms and repels them. But, if the worm is attracted to the odorant, it will likely kill the worm. The worm’s defense mechanism is also important for survival. In this paper, we characterize the mechanisms that regulate the integration of two odorants. We found that the presence of a repulsive odorant strongly blocks the attraction of other odorants, such as isoamyl alcohol ( IAA ) or benzaldehyde. Losing these genes reduces the ability of the worm to avoid the odorant. Restoring these genes in the brain could restore the function of the nerve cells involved in the integration process. These findings could help scientists better understand how the nervous system operates. Using C. elegans, researchers have identified three genes that play critical roles in olfactory integration. One of these genes is known to mediate the odorant-induced resistance to a worm. Another is known to block the worm’s response to the odorant. The results suggest that the nervous system of simple organisms uses fundamental signaling pathways to modulate the function of neural circuits to generate a coherent behavioral response when facing sensory cues of different valences. Moreover, the results suggest that the nervous system of simple organisms use fundamental signaling mechanisms to modulate the function of neural circuits to generate a cohesive behavioral response.
Schistosoma mansoni ( S. mansoni ) is the causative agent of schistosomiasis, which causes approximately 258 million people annually. The parasite’s eggs are released by eukaryotic cells and can be used as vaccine candidates against different species and stages of the disease. In this study, we investigated whether schistosome egg-derived EVs from S. mansoni eggs could provide an effective immunizing strategy for the treatment of schistosomiasis. We isolated EVs from cultured S. mansoni eggs and then tested them on mice vaccinated with 20 g of EVs. These animals were subcutaneously immunized with three doses of 20 g of EVs, followed by two weeks of infection with cercariae. Six weeks after infection, mice were sacrificed for vaccine candidate assessment. Results showed significant reduction in adult worm counts, liver and intestinal egg count reduction by 46. 58%, 93. 14% and 93. 17% respectively, accompanied by remarkable amelioration of sizes, numbers and histopathology of hepatic granulomata mediated by high interferon gamma ( IFN  ) and antibody level. This suggests the possibility of using S. mansoni-egg derived EVs as potential vaccine candidate against murine schistosomiasis mansoni.
Mycetoma is a chronic, subcutaneous infectious disease caused by fungi or filamentous bacteria. It has been reported since the 1800s, but the actual global burden of the disease is unknown. There is a big gap in data and epidemiological studies. More systematic studies are warranted to define the true burden of mycetoma in Uganda. Firstly, a systematic PubMed search for all studies of any design on mycetoma in Uganda was conducted. A retrospective review of all the biopsy reports at the Pathology Reference Laboratory, Department of Pathology, Kampala, Uganda from January 1950 to September 2019 was conducted to identify any reports on mycetoma histological diagnosis. The average incidence was estimated at 0. 32/100, 000 persons and prevalence of 8. 32/100, 000 persons per decade. However, there was a general decline in the number of cases detected recently. Males and the age group of 21–30 years were the most affected by mycetoma in Uganda, and only 7% of the cases were children. The highest number of cases was recorded from Kampala ( n = 30 ) and Jinja ( n = 19 ) districts. The majority of the cases were referred from surgical units. The foot was the most affected part of the body. Ten per cent of the cases had bone involvement of which 58% required amputation. Fungi were the most common causative agents ( 89% ) followed by Nocardia species ( 5% ) and Actinomycetes ( 4% ). The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low ( 45% ) with a very large differential diagnosis. The foot was the most affected part of the body. Ten per cent of the cases had bone involvement of which 58% required amputation. Fungi were the most common causative agent ( 89% ) followed by Nocardia species ( 5% ) and Actinomycetes ( 4% ). The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low ( 45% ) with a very large differential diagnosis. The foot was the most affected part of the body. Ten per cent of the cases had bone involvement of which 58% required amputation. Fungi were the most common causative agents ( 89% ) followed by Nocardia species ( 5% ) and Actinomycetes ( 4% ). The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low ( 45% ) with a very large differential diagnosis. The foot was the most affected part of the body. Ten per cent of the cases had bone involvement of which 58% required amputation. Fungi were the most common causative agents ( 89% ) followed by Nocardia species ( 5% ) and Actinomycetes ( 4% ). The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low ( 45% ) with a very large differential diagnosis. The foot was the most affected part of the body. Ten per cent of the cases had bone involvement of which 58% required amputation. Fungi were the most common causative agents ( 89% ) followed by Nocardia species ( 5% ) and Actinomycetes ( 4% ). The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low ( 45% ) with a very large differential diagnosis. The foot was the most affected part of the body. Ten per cent of the cases had bone involvement of which 58% required amputation. Fungi were the most common causative agent ( 89% ) followed by Nocardia species ( 5% ) and Actinomycetes ( 4% ). The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low ( 45% ) with a very large differential diagnosis. The average incidence was estimated at 0. 32/100, 000 persons and prevalence of 8. 32/100, 000 persons per decade. The foot was the most affected part of the body. Ten per cent of the cases were referred from surgical units. The majority of cases were recorded from Kampala ( n = 30 ) and Jinja ( n = 19 ) districts. The majority of cases were recorded from Kampala ( n = 30 ) and Jinja ( n = 19 ) districts. The index of clinical suspicion of mycetoma was low ( 45%
Malaria is one of the most prevalent vector-borne diseases worldwide. The human malaria transmission in Malaysia has been predominantly due to infection by Plasmodium knowlesi, a parasite of macaques. In recent years, the prevalence of human malaria in Malaysia has increased. However, there is no detailed systematic review on the simian malaria prevalence in Malaysia over the past 20 years. This study was conducted to gather all available data in terms of simian malaria epidemiology study among macaques in Malaysia over the last 20 years. This systematic review was conducted according to the PRISMA guidelines to select appropriate articles as references. Data searches were performed through international databases such as Google Scholar, PubMed, CrossRef, Scopus, Web of Science and Science Direct for original articles published from 2000 until 2021. All studies showed positive detection of Plasmodium parasites in macaques. The most predominant Plasmodium species in macaques was P. inui ( 49. 27% ) and the least common was P. fieldi ( 4. 76% ). The non-human primates like macaques are reservoirs of simian malaria in Malaysia. Hence, the study of host epidemiology is an important insight to public health management as there is a high occurrence of simian malaria in Malaysia. The right measurement can be taken as well to prevent the transmission of simian malaria from macaques to humans. The right measure can also help in identifying the reservoir hosts and extend the understanding of the parasite evolutionary history.
Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is the first human tumorvirus to be discovered. It has been shown that it can cause several malignancies including lymphoid and epithelial cancers, but the mechanism of its maintenance remains unclear. Here, we show that EBNA1 contains two SUMO-interacting motifs ( SIM2 and SIM3 ), which are required for the EBNA1 dimerization and maintenance of the viral genome. Mutation of SIM2 leads to functional loss of both EBNA1-mediated DNA replication and lytic gene silencing. Importantly, hypoxic stress induces the SUMO2-modified STUB1, KAP1 and USP7 modification to increase the SUMO1 modification of both STUB1 and KAP1 for reactivation of lytic replication. Deletion of the EBNASIM motif leads to functional loss of both EBNA1-mediated viral episome maintenance and lytic gene silencing. Therefore, the EBNA1SIM motif plays an essential role in EBV latency and is a potential therapeutic target against EBV-associated cancers.
The wheat plant is a staple crop for global food security. It is highly adapted to a wide variety of climates and production systems, and provides more than 20% of the calories and protein consumed by humans. However, it has been difficult to understand how the genes that regulate grain yield can contribute to the development of more productive crops. In this study, we identified three major haplotypes in the A-genome homeolog of WAPO1 ( WAPO-A1 ). These include the H1 gene wapo-A1 and the H2 gene wapo-B1. We found that both the H1 and H3 haplotypes were associated with different WAPO-A1 alleles. This suggests that WAPO1 affects the timing of terminal spikelet formation. Both transgenic and wapo1 mutant plants showed a range of floral abnormalities, suggesting additional roles of WAPO1 on wheat flowering development. Previous studies have shown that WAPO1 plays an important role in flowering and flowering development. Here, we show that WAPO1 is also involved in flowering and flowering development. The results suggest that WAPO1 may be useful in improving wheat fruit and vegetable productivity. The H2 haplotype is already present in most modern common wheat varieties but is rare in durum wheat where it might be particularly useful to improve grain yield. Using a high resolution genetic map, we identify the WAPO-A1 gene underpinning the SNS QTL. We then characterize the effect of different natural WAPO-A1 alleles on the number of spikelets and grains per spike. Our findings suggest that WAPO1 is a key factor in the development of more productive wheat varieties.
Scrub typhus is an emerging vector-borne disease caused by bacteria of the genus Orientia, which causes significant morbidity and mortality in humans. The disease has recently been discovered on Chiloé Island in southern Chile. It was previously thought that scrub typhus was restricted to a certain region, known as the tsutsugamushi triangle, but recent cases from the Arabian Peninsula and southern Chile have called this paradigm into question. This recent expansion of the endemic region is supported by serological data and studies in animals mainly from Africa. In the Asia-Pacific area, the orientia infection is transmitted by larvae of trombiculid mites known as chiggers. However, the reservoir ( s ) and vector ( s ) of scrub typhus outside Asia-Pacific are unknown. The aim of the present work was to detect and determine the prevalence of chiggers on different rodent species captured in probable sites for transmission of orientiae responsible for scrub typhus on Chiloé Island in southern Chile. During a total of 4, 713 trap-nights, 244 rodents of seven species were captured: the most abundant was Abrothrix olivacea. Chiggers were detected on all seven rodent species with a 55% prevalence rate. Chiggers showed low host specificity and varied according to site specific host abundance. Three genera of trombiculids were identified. Herpetacarus was the most abundant genus, prevalent in five of the six sites. Infestation rates showed site specific differences, which were statistically significant using a GLM model with binomial errors. Molecular analyses proved that 21 of 133 ( 15. 8% ) mite pools were positive for Orientia species, all of them belonged to the genus Herpetacarus. This study firstly reports the presence of different rodent-associated chigger mites positive for Orientia spp., in a region endemic for scrub typhus in southern Chile. Herpetacarus and two other genera of mites were found with high infestation rates of rodents in sites previously identified as probable exposure of scrub typhus cases. A substantial percentage of mite pool were positive for Orientia DNA, suggesting that chigger mites serve as vectors and reservoirs of this emerging zoonosis in South America.
The 2015–2017 Zika epidemic was a major outbreak of infectious diseases that caused millions of people worldwide. In the Americas, the disease is transmitted by mosquitoes and dengue virus. However, it can be difficult to diagnose the cause of these infections. It is possible that many cases of Zika could have been misdiagnosed as dengue or chikungunya. Given the importance of surveillance data for epidemiological analyses, we used this methodology to quantify the potential extent of misdiagnosis during the 2015–2017 Zika epidemic in Latin America and the Caribbean. We found that 944, 700 ( 95% CrI: 884, 900–996, 400 ) Zika cases occurred when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using molecular methods versus 608, 400 ( 95% CrI: 442, 000–821, 800 ) Zika cases that occurred when assuming all confirmed cases were diagnosed using serological methods. Our results suggest that misdiagnosis was more common in countries with proportionally higher reported cases of dengue and chikungunya, such as Brazil. This study could help resolve transmission dynamics of other co-circulating diseases with similarities in symptomatology and potential for misdiagnosis. Likewise, our method could also help solve transmission dynamics of other co-circulating diseases with similar symptomatology and potential for misdiagnosis. Moreover, our methodology could also help resolve transmission dynamics of other co-circulating diseases with similarities in symptomatology and potential for misdiagnosis. Using this approach, we estimate the potential extent of misdiagnosis during the 2015–2017 Zika epidemic in the Americas. This study could help identify at-risk groups, plan interventions to minimize deaths during a certain time of year, or whether existing ones are effective. Similarly, our methodology could help resolve transmission dynamics of other co-circulating diseases with similarities in symptomatology and potential for misdiagnosis. Likewise, our methodology could help resolve transmission dynamics of other co-circulating diseases with similarities in symptomatology and potential for misdiagnosis.
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) is an enveloped DNA virus that causes chronic infections in humans and other animals. It replicates its genome via reverse transcription of a pregenomic ( pg ) RNA intermediate, which is transported into the nucleus to form an episomal covalently closed circular DNA ( cccDNA ). The viral rcDNA is assembled into the nucleus to form an episomal covalently closed circular DNA ( cccDNA ). Infection with hepatocytes requires the viral polymerase II, which can be inhibited by capsid assembly modulators and an envelope–knockout mutant. However, the molecular characteristics of serum HBV RNA remain to be fully defined. Here, we show that the encapsidated serum HBV RNA contains pgRNA, which are detergent- and ribonuclease-resistant. We also found that the cell culture supernatant contained a large amount of pgRNA-containing nonenveloped capsids and a minor population of pgRNA-containing virions. This study will shed light on the molecular biology of serum HBV RNA and aid the development of serum HBV RNA as a novel biomarker for CHB diagnosis and treatment prognosis. Our work will shed light on the molecular biology of serum HBV RNA and aid the development of serum HBV RNA as a novel biomarker for CHB diagnostic and treatment prognosis.
Tuberculosis is a serious public health concern, and the development of drug-resistant tuberculosis ( MDR ) has been linked to the increased prevalence of HIV infections. The pathogen, Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ), causes TB in millions of people worldwide. Although multiple drugs are available to treat MDR, the emergence of multidrug-resistant ( MDR ) and eXtensively drug-resistant ( XDR ) TB is a major cause of concern. However, the onset of drug resistance in Mtb can be explained by mutations in the direct targets of antibiotics or the drug activating/modifying enzymes. Mutations in the regulatory regions of genes that cause overexpression of drug resistance-conferring genes, including but not restricted to efflux pumps, also help in decreasing the intracellular concentration of drugs. In this study, we generated gene replacement mutants for both the uracil DNA glycosylases ( Rvung, RvudgB ) and RvdKO. We found that RvdKO was more susceptible to spontaneous mutation rates than Rvng, which was higher in ex vivo conditions. This suggests that deleting UDGs in the host could lead to the accumulation of random mutations, and thus may contribute to the adaptation of the bacteria to different selection pressures. These findings suggest that deletion of DNA repair pathway genes may help the pathogen in better adaptability under stress conditions. Moreover, the results suggest that deletion of these proteins could facilitate the identification of drug target genes. This could allow us to use RvdKO as an efficient tool to identify potential new treatments for MDR.
The biological master clock, the suprachiasmatic nucleus ( of rat and mouse ), is composed of 10, 000 clock cells which are heterogeneous with respect to their circadian periods. However, it remains unclear how the network maintains a good degree of circadian phase coherence. In order to understand how this system works, researchers need to know how the cell-to-cell coupling mechanism is used. This information can be useful for understanding how the brain processes events, such as the rhythmic activity of animals. To do so, scientists must first determine how the clock cell connectome is structured. For example, the clock cell connectome is made up of a number of different types of cells, each of which has its own time cycle. It is important to study how these networks work, because they have many common features. One of them is that the core of the clock cell connectome is much larger than the shell of the clock cell. Another feature is that the core is more dense than the shell. Finally, the core is less dense than the shell. These are all factors that make the model network morphologically suitable. Here, we use computational techniques to investigate the structure of the network morphology. We then apply these methods to the simulations of the system. The results show that the network morphologies are very similar to those found in real life. The results suggest that the network morphology is not sensitive on random conditions, but is likely to help scientists find out how the clock cell connectome is organized. The results also provide new insights into how the clock cell connectome is organised.
The left-ventral occipito-temporal cortex ( lvOT ) is the brain’s visual system that processes words and sentences. It has been proposed that lvOT optimizes linguistic processing by filtering out orthographic strings without meaning. In this paper, we show how lvOT activates when word-likeness is present in the frontal region of the brain. We then demonstrate that the LCM predicts lvOT activation better than alternative models across three functional magnetic resonance imaging studies. We found that word-likeness is represented posteriorly to lvOT, whereas a dichotomous word/non-word output of the LCM could be localized to downstream frontal regions. Finally, training the process of lexical categorization resulted in more efficient reading. As a consequence, we propose that word recognition in the ventral visual stream involves word-likeness extraction followed by lexical categorization before one can access word meaning. This paper demonstrates that word recognition in the ventral visual stream requires word-likeness extraction followed by lexical categorization before one can access word meaning. ## Summary for a layman : The LCM assumes that lvOT optimises linguistic processing by allowing fast meaning access when words are familiar and filters out orthographic strings without meaning. In a second evaluation, we empirically demonstrate that quantitative LCM simulations predicted lvOT activation better than alternatives across three functional magnetic resonance imaging studies. We find that word-likeness, assumed as input into a lexical categorization process, is represented posteriorly to lvOT, whereas a dichotomous word/non-word output of the LCM could be localized to downstream frontal regions. Finally, training the process of lexical categorization resulted in more efficient reading. In sum, we propose that word recognition in the ventral visual stream involves word-likeness extract after word-likeness extraction, followed by lexical categorization before one can access word meaning.
The circadian clock is a network of molecular interactions that generate biochemical oscillations with a near 24-hour period. In mammals, the circadian rhythms are controlled by a central synchronizer called the suprachiasmatic nucleus ( SCN ). This synchronization allows the immune system to control the circadian rhythms and regulate the activity of clock genes. Shift workers often experience circadian misalignment as their irregular work schedule disrupts the natural light-dark cycle, which in turn can cause serious health problems associated with alterations in genetic expressions of clock genes. In particular, shift work is associated with impaired immune function, and those alterations are sex-specific. To achieve this goal, we have constructed a mathematical model of the mammalian pulmonary circadian clock coupled to an acute inflammation model in male and female rats. We replicate the clock gene expression in the lung and the immune response to various doses of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ). Under normal conditions, our model predicts that a host is more sensitive to LPS at circadian time CT12 versus CT0 due to a dynamic change of Interleukin 10 ( IL-10 ). Under normal conditions, males produce less pro-inflammatory cytokines than males, but the extent of sequelae experienced by males and females varies across the circadian day. This model can serve as an essential component in an integrative model that will yield mechanistic understanding of how shift work-mediated circadian disruptions affect the inflammatory and other physiological responses. This study aims to understand how shift work-mediated circadian disturbances affect the immune system and other physiological responses. It is important to know how shift work impacts on the ability of the immune system to respond to inflammatory events.
Dengue fever virus ( DENV ) is an infectious disease that causes severe illness in humans and animals. It has been reported to cause 9, 000 deaths annually in Saudi Arabia, and the global economic burden of this disease is estimated at US$110. 2 Million per year. The current study aims to assess the cost-effectiveness of dengue prevention programs by quantifying the impact of the infection on both patients and society. In this paper, we used national data from Jeddah city, which was the major contributor to increasing the total yearly number of dengue cases in the country. We found that the average costs for the five years were estimated as US$551. 0 Million, including direct ( US$29. 0 Million ) and indirect ( US$139. 5 Million ) costs. This represents a significant increase in the annual cost of dengue fever, which is likely to be higher than other major infectious diseases. However, indirect costs are often incurred by patients or their families while other direct costs are readily available and could be provided by the relevant agencies or institutions. Therefore, it is important to investigate the economic burden of the disease to measure its impact on both patients and society. The present study provides a comprehensive analysis of the economic burden of dengue fever in Saudi Arabia, which will help policymakers to allocate resources, tailor specific prevention strategies, set priorities, and evaluate the cost-effectiveness of particular interventions. The results will provide valuable information for future research.
Lipid droplets are the major form of fat storage, and provide a reservoir of energy and building blocks for membrane growth and repair. The function ( s ) of stored fat in the nucleus has not been determined, but it is possible that nuclear fat is beneficial in some situations. However, nuclear lipid droplets might instead be deleterious by disrupting nuclear organization or triggering aggregation of hydrophobic proteins. We show here that nuclear lipid droplets occur normally in C. elegans intestinal cells and germ cells, but appear to be associated with damage only in the intestine. Nuclear lipid droplets can be associated with novel bundles of microfilaments ( nuclear actin ) and membrane tubules that might have roles in damage repair. To increase the normal, low frequency of nuclear lipid droplets in wild-type animals, we used a forward genetic screen to isolate mutants with abnormally large or abundant nuclear lipid droplets. Genetic analysis and cloning of three such mutants showed that the genes encode the lipid regulator SEIP-1/seipin, the inner nuclear membrane protein NEMP-1/Nemp1/TMEM194A, and a component of COPI vesicles called COPA-1/-COP. Our results suggest that nuclear lipid droplets are detrimental to intestinal nuclei, but have no obvious deleterious effect on germ nuclei. Thus, our findings suggest that nuclear lipid droplets are detrimental to intestinal nuclei, but have no obvious deleterious effect on germ nuclei.
Streptococcus pneumoniae ( pneumococcus ) is the main cause of bacterial meningitis worldwide. The infection causes many people to develop neurological sequelae after the acute infection has resolved. However, little is known about how pneumococcal interactions with neurons lead to neuronal death. In this study, we investigated the mechanisms for pneumococcal interaction with neurons. We found that RrgA- and Ply-expressing pneumococci co-localize with neuronal -actin. By using human primary neurons, pull-down experiments and mass spectrometry, we show that RrgA- and Ply-expressing pneumococci interact with neuronal -actin. Using purified proteins, we showed that Ply interacts with the neuronal plasma membrane, thereby increasing the exposure on the outer surface of -actin filaments. Pneumococcal infections promote neuronal death possibly due to increased intracellular Ca2+ levels depending on presence of Ply, as well as on actin cytoskeleton disassembly. STED super resolution microscopy revealed disruption of -actin filaments in neurons infected with pneumococci expressing RrgA and Ply. Finally, neuronal death caused by pneumococcal infection could be inhibited using antibodies against -actin. This data potentially helps explaining mechanisms for why pneumococci frequently cause neurological sequelae.
The fighting fish Betta splendens is a well-known example of an aggressive behavior that can be observed in many species. It has been used to study the biological mechanisms of aggression in various ways, but how such interactions are controlled remains unknown. In this paper, we examined brain transcriptomes from two competing pairs during a fight. We found that each pair showed distinct behavioral patterns, and each partner was shown to have different gene expression levels. These differences were not only related to their physical appearance but also to their ability to communicate with other animals. This suggests that these changes may contribute to the physiological basis for the behavioral synchronization. An analysis using the synchronized genes in fighting pairs of the D60 group revealed genes enriched for synaptic function, synaptic functions, learning and memory. Brain-transcriptomic synchronization could provide a new cornerstone with which to investigate coordinating and sustaining social interactions between two interacting partners of vertebrates. Using the fighting fish B. splendens, we studied behavioral and brain-transcriptomic changes during the fight between two opponents. At the behavioral level, surface-breathing, biting/striking occurred only during intervals between mouth-locking. Eventually, the behaviors of the two opponents became synchronized, with each pair showing a unique behavioral pattern. At the physiological level, we investigated the expression patterns of 23, 306 brain transcripts using RNA sequencing data from brains of fighting pairs after a 20-min ( D20 ) and a 60-min ( D60 ) fight. The two opponents in each D60 fighting pair showed a strong gene expression correlation, whereas those in D20 fighting pairs showed a weak correlation. Moreover, each fighting pair in the D60 group showed pair-specific gene expression patterns in a grade of membership analysis ( GoM ) and were grouped as a pair in the heatmap clustering. The observed pair-specific individualization in brain-transcriptomic synchronization suggests that this synchronization provides a physiological basis for the behavioral synchronization. An analysis using the synchronized genes in fighting pairs of the D60 group found genes enriched for ion transport, synaptic function, and learning and memory. Brain-transcriptomic synchronization could be a general phenomenon and may provide a new cornerstone with which to explore coordinating and sustaining social interactions between two interacting partners of vertebrates.
Mosquitoes carry a variety of viruses, some of which spread only among mosquitoes ( mosquito-specific ), while others are transmitted from mosquitoes to humans or other hosts ( mosquito-borne ). Some of these viruses are thought to be ancestors of some mosquito-borne viruses, while others appear to interfere with the replication and transmission of medically significant viruses, such as West Nile virus. However, several “totivirus-like viruses” have been identified as being related to the family Totiviridae. In recent years, several unassigned viruses isolated from mosquitoes, including OmRV, were found to be associated with the viral family Totiviridae. Most reported members of this family infect fungi or protozoans and lack an extracellular life cycle stage. Here, we report cryo-EM structures for a newly isolated strain of OmRV. The structure features unexpected pentamer protrusions at the five-fold vertex of the capsid. Disassociation of the protrusion could result in several conformational changes in the major capsid. All these structures together with biological results suggest the protrusions’ associations with the extracellular transmission of OmRV. Despite the fact that most of the viruses are not capable of extracellular transmission, it is still unclear how they might interact with the host’s immune system. Now, Wang et al. have now determined the structure of a new species of Omono River virus, which has been previously described as having unusual protrusions. This suggests that the protrusions may associate with the extracellular transmission of OmRV. These findings could help scientists understand how the infection of mosquitoes can occur.
The mTOR protein is the catalytic core of two complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2. Both proteins are involved in cellular processes, but little is known about how they regulate mTORC2 activity. Here we show that Ric-8B is essential for development. In the embryo, Ric-8B gene expression is predominant in the nervous system, but dies early during mid-embryogenesis. We also found that mTORC2 activity was reduced in mice with a hypomorphic mutation of the Ric-8B gene. This resulted in an unexpected impairment of mTORC2 activity. Phosphorylation of Akt at Ser473 is downregulated in the Ric-8B mutant embryos, suggesting that mTORC2 is essential for development. Knockdown of the endogenous Ric-8B gene leads to decreased levels of Akt, further supporting the involvement of Ric-8B in mTORC2 activity. Knockdown of the endogenous Ric-8B gene results in reduced phosphorylation levels of Akt. Knockdown of the endogenous Ric-8B gene leads to reduced phosphorylation levels of Akt, further supporting the involvement of Ric-8B in mTORC2 activity. Our findings reveal a crucial role for Ric-8B in development and provide novel insights into the signals that regulate mTORC2.
Dengue fever is a common vector-borne disease that affects millions of people worldwide. It causes severe health problems in many countries, including the United States, Japan, and China. The global epidemic has been caused by mosquitoes causing diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis, and measles. In recent years, the world’s population has increased dramatically, and dengue fever is one of the most prevalent infectious diseases in the world. However, it remains difficult to predict the spread of dengue fever in the future. To address this problem, researchers have developed an ensemble forecast system for dengue fever. This model was built on a susceptible-infected-recovered ( SIR ) type of compartmental model coupled with a data assimilation method called the Ensemble adjusted Kalman filter ( EAKF ). The model was informed by meteorological and mosquito density information to depict the transmission of dengue virus among human and mosquito populations, and generate predictions. We updated the effective population size parameter to adjust the predicted outbreak scale. In retrospective forecasts of dengue outbreaks in Guangzhou, China during the 2011–2017 seasons, the proposed forecast model generated accurate projections of peak timing, peak intensity, and total incidence, outperforming a generalized additive model approach. The ensemble forecast system can be operated in real-time and inform control planning to reduce the burden of dengue fever.
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae. It can damage the peripheral nerves and skin, which can lead to impairment. The disease may affect people’s mental health and can be harmful for their physical health. However, it has been linked to anxiety disorders, depression, suicide attempts and low self-esteem. People who have experienced severe stigmatisation and have gone on to overcome this adversity demonstrate numerous dimensions of resilience. Resilience is a process that incorporates many of the core skills and abilities which may enable people to address stigma and discrimination. In this study, researchers in India developed an intervention to strengthen individuals and families’ resilience against leprosy-related discrimination. Participants were included in two sites, urban areas in Telangana state, and rural areas in Odisha state. Two questionnaires were used pre- and post-intervention. Data were collected at baseline, a few weeks after completion of the intervention, and in Odisha state again at six months after completion. Paired t-tests measured differences pre- and post-intervention. Qualitative data were analysed. Eighty participants across 20 families were included in the study ( 23 persons affected and 57 family members ). We found a significant increase in CD-RISC scores for persons affected and family members from Odisha state. This improvement was maintained at six months after completion. There was no increase in WHOQOL-BREF scores post-intervention among participants from Odisha state. WHOQOL-BREF scores were significantly higher at follow-up for persons affected in both states, and for family members in Odisha state. No families dropped out of the study. In qualitative feedback, all participants described drawing benefit from the programme. This pilot study showed that the 10-week family-based intervention to strengthen resilience among persons affected by leprosy and their family members was feasible, and has the potential to improve resilience and quality of life. A large-scale efficacy trial is necessary to determine the effectiveness and long-term sustainability of the intervention.
The chromosomes are separated by two pairs of DNA molecules called chromatin and a protein known as shugoshin ( Sgo1 ) is required for the formation of sister chromatids. In budding yeast, the conserved protein shugoshin ( Sgo1 ) recruits condensin to the centromeres. This interaction is essential for the establishment of biorientation, but it has been unclear how this interaction is controlled. Here, we show that Sgo1 interacts with condensin and is crucial for the establishment of biorientation. We also identify a region within Sgo1 that is critical for the recruitment of condensin to the centromeric chromatin. These findings suggest that Sgo1 is regulated by phosphorylating a central kinase in the spindle assembly checkpoint. However, it remains unclear whether this activity is regulated by Mps1, a central kinase in the spindle assembly checkpoint. To investigate this, Weisman et al. used peptide prints to determine the nature of the interactions between Sgo1 and condensin. They found that SRM phosphorylates Sgo1 and disrupts its association with condensin. The results revealed that SRM phosphorylated Sgo1 and thereby inhibited the interaction with condensin. We also discovered that Mps1, a central kinase in the spindle assembly checkpoint, directly phosphorylates Sgo1 within the SRM to regulate the interaction with condensin. Our study suggests that SGO1 is regulated by phosphorylation of S Go1 and that this may be a novel mechanism for controlling shugoshin activity at the centromeres. This work is the first to demonstrate that Sgo1 is able to bind condensin to centromeres. It also provides new insights into how shugoshin functions in budding yeast.
The ability to identify T cell epitopes is important for many immunological applications, including vaccine design and cancer diagnosis. However, it is not known what the true negative is, as only a subset of epitope candidates are commonly tested experimentally. In this study, we used a recently published dataset that systematically defined T cell epitopes recognized in vaccinia virus ( VACV ) infected mice expressing H-2Db or H-2Kb. We found that all methods were able to improve epitope identification above random, with the best performance achieved by neural network-based predictions trained on both MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data. Impressively, these methods captured more than half of the major epitopes in the top N = 277 predicted peptides within the N = 767, 788 prediction made for distinct peptides of relevant lengths that can theoretically be encoded in the VACV proteome. These results provide guidance for immunologists as to which prediction methods to use, and what success rates are possible for epitope predictions when considering a highly controlled system of administered immunizations to inbred mice. In addition, this benchmark was implemented in an open and easy to reproduce format, providing developers with a framework for future comparisons against new tools. ## Summary for a layman’s dictionary : A computational tool that predicts the appearance of a protein called Vaccinia virus ( VACV ). This method is based on a combination of machine learning algorithms trained on MHC binding and MHC ligand elution data. It has been shown that the most accurate prediction method is trained using MHC binding data, but it is still unclear how it performs compared to other techniques. Zhao et al. have now developed a novel approach to evaluate the accuracy of the current method. They show that the method can capture more than half of the major epitopes in the Top N = 277 predicted peptides. This means that the method can be applied to any type of immune response, including infectious diseases, allergies and asthma. The findings will help scientists understand how to better understand how T cell epitope detection works.
The sperm of the father is often referred to as the ‘blood’ for its DNA, and it is thought that this blood contains many different molecules. However, it is not clear whether these proteins are linked to the development of offspring. In humans, the sperm of the mother is typically made up of two types of cells called a fetus and an egg. This type of cell is known as the fetal egg, which is then fertilised by a process called epigenetic regulation. It is important to understand how fetal eggs develop and develop. Studies in non-human mammals have shown that obesity may increase the risk of paternal obesity. But it is unclear whether such associations could be mediated by genetic variation. We analysed genome-wide data from human blood and sperm from obese males and found that sperm methylation levels were highly discordant to those of peripheral blood. These findings suggest that spermatozoal DNA methylation is likely to be influenced by environmental stimuli or acquired phenotypes. However, one cross-tissue obesity-specific hypermethylated site ( cg19357369 ) was identified, warranting replication and further investigation. Overall, sperm displays a unique DNA methylation profile that is highly discordant to that of matched peripheral blood. This suggests that spermatozoal DNA methylation is an unlikely mediator of intergenerational effects of metabolic traits. This is particularly pertinent for modifiable traits such as obesity, where timely intervention could reduce any potential negative intergenerational effects. ## Summary for a layman.
The central nervous system ( CNS ) is the largest organ in our body and contains many different types of cells. Its main function is to protect us from disease and injury, but it also provides an important tool for understanding how viruses enter and escape the brain. Infection with neurotropic viruses can lead to severe illness and death. To understand how viruses enter and exit the CNS, we need to know how they transport virions. Here, Weidman et al. used primary neurons grown in microfluidic devices to study the mechanisms of reovirus entry and transport. These experiments revealed that reovirus is capable of retrograde but only limited anterograde transmission. This mechanism of reovirus entry differs from clathrin-mediated endocytosis, which is used by reovirus to invade non-neuronal cells. Further analysis of viral transport revealed that multiple virions are transported together in axons within non-acidified vesicles. Reovirus-containing vesicles acidify after reaching the soma, where disassembly of virions and release of the virus core into the cytoplasm initiates replication. Our findings provide a foundation for further exploration of common host factors used by neurotropic viruses. Furthermore, our results emphasize consideration of cell type-specific entry mechanisms in the tailored design of neurotropic viruses as tracers, oncolytic agents, and delivery vectors.
Malaria is a major global health problem, and the development of effective vaccines against malaria has been prioritized. The RTS, S/AS01 vaccine is the most advanced vaccine against malaria, but its efficacy declines over time. Antibodies to the C-terminal domain of Pf circumsporozoite protein ( ctCSP ) are known to be highly sensitive to antimalarial drugs. However, antibodies to other regions on the ctCSP site have not yet been identified. Here, we used seven monoclonal antibody mAbs from volunteers immunized with RTS, S/AS01. We found that antibodies to two different sites on opposite faces of ctCSP were more resistant to the -ctCSP site than antibodies to the -ctCSP site. These findings suggest that the ctCSP epitope region could be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and exploited in structure-based vaccine design. This study highlights a previously unidentified conserved epitope on ctCSP that can be targeted by prophylactic antibodies and exploited in structural-based vaccine designs. This work provides new insights into how the ctCSP epitopes are protected against parasite infection. It also helps us understand the role of the ctCSP epitope in protecting humans against disease. ## Summary for a layman. – Xu et al., 2017. Identifying an Epitope on Plasmodium falciparum, which was recently shown to protect human hearts against malaria, suggests that it may play a key role in protection against malaria. – Yu et al., 2016. – Xu et al., 2015. – Xu et al., 2014. – Xu et al., 2013. – Xu et al., 2012. – Xi et al., 2011. – X
Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that infects humans and animals. It causes severe illness and can cause serious infections. The disease affects many different organisms, including the human body, but it has been unclear how this type of infection influences its pathogenicity. However, it is well known that T. gondii strains are genetically distinct from other species. This means that the differences between these two types of parasite are not completely understood. In order to understand how lysine malonylation contributes to the variation in virulence of T. gondii, researchers need to know how lysine malonylation regulates the expression of proteins. Here, we used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) to investigate the level of lysine malonylation in three T. gondii strains with distinctive pathogenicities in mice. We found that 111 differentially malonylated protein sites were upregulated, and 17 proteins and 17 sites were downregulated in RH strain versus PRU strain; 50 proteins and 59 sites were upregulated, 50 proteins and 53 sites were downregulated in RH strain versus VEG strain; 72 proteins and 90 sites were upregulated, and 7 proteins and 8 sites were downregulated in VEG strain versus PRU strain. These results reveal an association between lysine malonylation and intra-species virulence differences in T. gondii. This study provides new insight into the role of lysine malonylation in T. gondii virulence and offers a new resource for elucidating the contribution of lysine malonylation to the virulence of T. gondii.
Nematodes are multicellular organisms that infect approximately 1. 5 billion people globally and are a significant public health concern. There is an accepted need for new, more effective anthelmintic drugs. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors ( nAChRs ) on parasite nerve and somatic muscle are targets of the cholinomimetic anthelmintics. The nematode pharynx is a neuromuscular organ that undergoes rhythmic peristalsis to ingest food and is crucial for survival. These drugs help alleviate the nematode burden of the 1. 5 billion people affected globally. However, there is little known about the nAChR subunits. Here, we have identified a novel nicotinic acetylcholine receptor on the nematode pharynx. This homomeric receptor is composed of five non-Î eat-2 subunits and is not sensitive to existing cholinomimetic anthelmintics. We found that EAT-18, a novel auxiliary protein, is essential for functional expression of the receptor. EAT-18 directly interacts with the mature receptor, and different homologs alter the pharmacological properties. Thus we have described not only a novel potential drug target but also a new type of auxiliary protein for nAChRs. ##
HIV-1 infects CD4 T lymphocytes ( CD4TL ), the blood cells that carry out the immune response to infection. The virus enters CD4TL through binding of the receptor CCR5 or CXCR4. This is the key component of HIV-1 transmission and has been linked to accelerated depletion of CD4TL and progression to AIDS. However, the role of CXCR4-using viruses remains unclear. Here, we investigated whether the sensitivity of viruses to inhibition by CXCL12 changes over time in infection. We first examined how resistance to CXCL12 affects viral entry into CD4TL, but it was not due to improved fusion or binding to CD4. In addition, we found that RES Envs are more likely to deregulate CD4TL homeostasis. Resistance also provides viruses with an enhanced capacity to enter naive CD4TL when surrounded by CXCL12, which mirrors their situation in lymphoid organs, and to deplete bystander activated effector memory cells. Therefore, RES viruses seem more likely to deregulate CD4TL homeostasis. Our findings suggest that RES viruses could represent new therapeutic targets to help prevent CD4TL depletion in HIV+ patients on cART. These results improve our understanding of the pathophysiology and the transmission of HIV-1 and suggests that RES viruses’ receptors could represent new therapeutic targets to help prevent CD4TL depletion in HIV+ patients on cART. This work improves our understanding of the pathogenesis and the transmission of HIV-1 and suggests that RES viruses’ receptors could represent new therapeutic targets to help prevent CD4TL depletion in HIV+ patients on cART.
The sand fly Leishmania sergenti causes human disease and is transmitted by Phlebotomus sand flies. In the West Bank in Palestine, three species cause human diseases: Leishmania infantum, L. major and L. tropica. P. sergenti is more abundant inside hyrax habitats called dens, caves and outdoors. However, in recent years proliferation of rock-piles and other artificial shelters for hyraxes close to residential areas has resulted in their relocation here, creating new breeding sites for P. sergenti. Fogging hyrax dens reduced sand fly density and leishmania infection during the 5-week post-intervention period. The density of Leishmania infected sand flies decreased by 65% ( IRR: 0. 26–0. 48–0. 90 ) at two weeks and 34% ( IRR: 0. 12–0. 42 ) at five weeks and 74% ( IRR: 0. 18–0. 42 ) at two weeks. Fogging hyrax dens reduced sand fly abundance and Leishmania infection during the 5 week post-intervention period and especially the first two weeks suggesting it could be an effective source-reduction measure for ZCL vectors. Future randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm the effectiveness of fogging hyrax dens on decreasing ZCL incidence.
Foot-and-mouth disease virus ( FMDV ) is the causative agent of foot-and-mouth disease ( FMD ), a highly contagious disease that affects cattle and pigs. The 5′ untranslated region ( 5′ UTR ) of FMDV is considerably longer than in other viruses from the picornaviridae family. It contains several distinct structures, including multiple ( 2, 3 or 4 depending on the virus strain ) putative PKs linked in tandem. However, the role of these structures in the viral life cycle has not been fully understood. Here, we have investigated the structural conservation and importance of pseudoknot structures in the FMDV genome. We found that despite the conserved structure of the PKs across all FMDVs, a replicon lacking PKs was replication competent, albeit at reduced levels. Furthermore, in competition experiments, GFP FMDV replicons with less than two ( 0 or 1 ) PK structures were outcompeted by a mCherry FMDV wt replicon that had 4 PKs, whereas GFP replicons with 2 or 4 PKs were not. This apparent replicative advantage offered by the additional PKs correlates with the maintenance of at least two PKs in the genomes of FMDV field isolates. Thus, our study points to roles for the PKs in both vRNA replication and virion assembly, thereby improving understanding of the molecular biology of FMDV replication and the wider roles of PK in RNA functions. ## Summary for a layman. Foot-and-mouth disease virus ( FMDV ) is a single stranded positive sense RNA virus of the Picornaviridae family. It occurs as seven antigenically diverse serotypes; A, O, C, Asia 1, Southern African Territories ( SAT ) 1, SAT 2 and SAT 3. In addition, wild species such as African buffalo ( Syncerus caffer ) are thought to be natural reservoirs of the virus and have largely asymptomatic infection. Our work points to roles for the PKs in both vRNA replication and virion assembly, thereby improving understanding of the molecular biology of FMDV replication and the wider roles of PK in RNA functions.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease that causes severe morbidity and mortality in endemic countries. The current tablet formulation of Praziquantel ( PZQ ) is not suitable for pre-school age children mainly due to its bitter taste and the large tablet size. In this study, researchers in Tanzania randomized 48 children aged 6–11 years old to receive two new orally disintegrating tablets of Praziquantel ( L-PZQ ) ODT 150 mg and Racemate Praziquantel ( Rac-PZQ ) ODT 150 mg crushed and dispersed in water. The palatability of each drug was measured using a 100 mm visual analogue scale ( VAS ) incorporating a 5-point hedonic scale, immediately after spitting out the test product. There was no reported difference in the VASt = 0 between the two ODT formulations compared with the standard formulation. The new paediatric-friendly formulations dispersed in water were both found to be more palatable than the existing standard formulation of PZQ. Further research is needed for assessing efficacy and tolerability of the newly ODTs Praziquantel drug in younger children. This trial was registered on ClinicalTrials. gov ( NCT02315352 ) and in the Pan African Clinical Trials Registry ( PACTR201412000959159 ). The study was registered on ClinicalTrials. gov ( NCT02315352 ) and in the Pan African Clinical Trials registry ( PACTR201412000959159 ). The study was registered on ClinicalTrials. gov ( NCT02315352 ) and in the Pan African Clinical Trials Registry ( PACTR201412000959159 ). The study was registered on ClinicalTrials. gov ( NCT02315352 ) and in the Pan African Clinical Trials Registry ( PACTR201412000959159 ). The study was registered on ClinicalTrials. gov ( NCT02315352 ) and in the Pan African Clinical Trials Registry ( PACTR201412000959159 ).
Herpesviruses are a leading cause of human disease, second only to influenza and cold viruses. The virus is packed tightly into a protein shell called the capsid, which is wrapped around an unstructured membrane. This tight packing causes the viral genome to be compressed and released into the cell nucleus. Infection with herpesviruses can lead to severe infections and death. However, there is no effective antiviral drug for herpesviruses without significant toxicities. To address this problem, we have developed a novel mechanism of action ( MOA ) that targets DNA-DNA electrostatic interactions that are unique to tightly packaged herpesviruses. We found that these molecules can block DNA-DNA electrostatic interactions that are not present elsewhere in the host cell. These compounds are small polyamides that are highly resistant to the pressure-driven DNA-protein packaging in herpesvirus capsids. They were used as leads for further antiviral drugs, but they are currently unavailable in vivo. Here, we show that the molecular weights of these compounds are low. Our results suggest that these compounds could serve as new target compounds for further antiviral treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work represents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum antiviral therapies for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This is a biophysical approach to treat viral infection where vaccine development is challenged by high mutation rates or other evasion mechanisms. This is a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This is a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work serves as a proof-of-concept to demonstrate the feasibility of a new antiviral target—suppressing pressure-driven viral genome ejection into a cell nucleus. This work serves as a proof-of-concept to demonstrate the feasibility of a new antiviral target—suppressing pressure-driven viral genome ejection into a cell nucleus. This work serves as a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work serves as a proof-of-concept to demonstrate the feasibility of a new antiviral target—suppressing pressure-driven viral genome ejection into a cell nucleus. This work serves as a proof-of-concept to demonstrate the feasibility of a new antiviral target—suppressing pressure-driven viral genome ejection into a cell nucleus. This work serves as a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work is a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work is a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work represents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work represents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work represents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work represents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work represents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work represents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpesviruses and other viruses with genome-pressure-dependent replication. This work represents a platform for discovery of a new class of broad-spectrum treatments for herpe
The National Programme to Eliminate Lymphatic Filariasis ( GPELF ) is being implemented in the Nancowry Islands of Nicobar district in India. It has been recommended that mass drug administration with DEC and albendazole simultaneously is the main strategy to interrupt transmission besides recommending an integrated vector management, wherever feasible. In 2004, India contributed around 44. 3% of the global burden of Lymphatic Filariasis ( LF ). Transmission control with Mass Drug Administration ( MDA ) with DEC and Albendazole ( ALB ) is the main strategy to eliminate LF. However, collection of the vector mosquito has been a challenge since only day blood samples are needed. Microfilaria ( Mf ) prevalence was above 1% even after nine rounds of MDA with DEC and albendazole. Molecular xenomonitoring ( MX ) was conducted to identify appropriate vector sampling method and assess the impact. BioGents Sentinel traps, gravid traps and human baited double bed nettraps were used in three locations in each village to collect Aedes niveus female mosquitoes. Subsequently daytime man landing collections ( MLC ) were carried out in all the 25 villages in the islands. Collections were compared in terms of the number of vector mosquitoes captured per trap collection. Females of Ae. niveus were pooled, dried and processed for detecting filarial parasite DNA using RT-PCR assay. Vector infection rate was estimated using PoolScreen software. Only 393 female mosquitoes including 44 Ae. niveus were collected from 459 trap collections using three trapping devices. From 151 MLCs, 2170 Ae. niveus female mosquitoes were collected. The average prevalence of W. bancrofti DNA was 0. 43%. Estimated upper 95% CI exceeded the provisional prevalence threshold of 0. 1% in all the villages, indicating continued transmission as observed in Mf survey. MLCs could be the choice, for now, to sample Ae. niveus mosquitoes. The vector-parasite MX, can be used to evaluate interventions in this area after further standardization of the protocol.
The acetyltransferase CBP is an important regulator of many cellular processes. It regulates the activity of several transcription factors and other proteins, including interferon ( IFN ), which is one example of a major signaling pathway. However, the regulation of CBP’s acetyltransferase activity remains poorly understood. Here, we found that cellular USP12 interacts with the HAT domain of CBP and inhibits CBP’s acetyltransferase activity. In addition, we discovered that in IFN signaling USP12 translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus. This allows CBP-induced acetylation and activation of IFN signaling proteins in the cytoplasm. Furthermore, USP12 translocation blocks CBP-induced acetylation of phosphorylated STAT1 ( p-STAT1 ) and therefore inhibits the dephosphorylation effects of TCPTP on p-STAT1. Our findings could provide new strategies for IFN-based antiviral therapy. Our study uncovers a cell-intrinsic regulation of CBP acetyltransferase activity and may provide potential strategies for IFN-based antiviral therapy. ## Summary for a layman.
The genus Orthobunyavirus is one of the most common causes of human disease in the United States. It has been identified as an orthobunyavirus in Brazil and Peru, but it has not yet been reported in Haiti. In 2014, two orthobunyaviruses were isolated from children with acute febrile illness in Haiti. These viruses are known to cause fever and rash syndromes, and they have been linked to other diseases. However, there is little information about how these infections occur. Melao virus ( MELV ) was first discovered in Aedes mosquitoes captured in the Melajo forest in Trinidad. This virus was then found in plasma samples collected from five case patients. OROV RNA was detected in the plasma of another child, using an unbiased sequencing approach. Abdominal pain was reported by four case patients with MELV infection, with lymphadenopathy noted in two cases. Our findings document the occurrence of these orthobunyaviruses within the Caribbean region and highlight the critical importance of surveillance with viral genome sequence analyses to identify outbreaks caused by these and other emerging viruses. The International Committee on the Taxonomy of Viruses currently lists >180 viruses in the genus Orthobunyavirus ( order Bunyavirales, family Peribunyaviridae ). While little data is available for many of these viruses, several are well known causes of human disease, including La Crosse virus ( LACV ) and Jamestown Canyon virus ( JCV ). Oropouche virus ( OROV ) causes Oropouche febrile illness, which is presently one of the common arbovirus-associated febrile illnesses in Brazil. This virus is known to cause meningoencephalitis, which is presently one of the common arbovirus-associated febrile illnesses in Brazil. We report the identification of two orthobunyaviruses in plasma specimens collected from Haitian children with acute febrile illness. These studies highlight the need for surveillance with viral genome sequence analysis to identify outbreaks caused by these and other emerging viruses.
The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant economic impacts in countries affected by the outbreak. In 2019–2020, more than 2. 6 million people died of COVID-19. The mortality rate of SARS-CoV-2 is lower than that of MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV infection. However, the death rate of SARS-CoV-2 is higher than that of MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV infection. To develop effective vaccines against COVID-19, a nucleic acid-based vaccine is an emerging option. Here, we report a DNA vaccine containing the spike protein of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ). Spike proteins are responsible for the processes of virus attachment to host receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 ( ACE2 ), cell entry, and virus-cell membrane fusion to release viral RNA into host cells. After immunization, sera were collected for antigen-specific antibody and neutralizing antibodies titers. We found that both pSARS-S and pSARS2-S immunization induced similar levels of antibodies against S2 of SARS-CoV-2. In contrast, only pSARS2-S immunization induced very high titers of neutralizing antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. Importantly, pSARS2-S immunization in hamsters could induce protective immunity against SARS-CoV-2 challenge in vivo. These data suggest that DNA vaccination could be a promising approach for protecting against COVID-19.
Lymphatic filariasis ( LF ) is an infectious disease that causes permanent disability through chronic manifestations of lymphedema and elephantiasis. The World Health Organization ( WHO ) has recommended the provision of morbidity management and disability prevention services for people with LF, but there is little information about what MMDP services are available and where they are available. In Zambia, LF patients have been reported to be suffering from symptoms of lymphedema and hydrocele, which accounts for 1. 36 million life years. However, there is limited information on what MMDP services are available and how LF patients are accessing them. This study sought to document health beliefs and health seeking behavior towards MMDP services for LF in Luangwa District, Zambia. This was an exploratory qualitative study conducted with community members including LF patients, community health workers and healthcare providers. Data was collected through a series of four focus group discussions stratified by sex and 26 in-depth interviews. Data was analyzed by thematic analysis using NVivo software. The perceived causes of the chronic manifestations of LF included contact with animal faeces, use of traditional herbal aphrodisiacs ( mutoto ), witchcraft and sexual contact with women who were menstruating or had miscarried. Hydrocele patients were afraid of hydrocelectomies as they were thought to cause infertility or death. Very few community members were able to identify any home and facility-based care strategies for lymphoedema. Health system and cultural barriers to seeking healthcare included; long distances to the health facilities, lack of awareness of existing MMDP services, perceived costs of accessing MMDP services, gender and social norms, and fear of stigmatization. Health seeking behaviour for LF in the district is mainly driven by negative beliefs about the causes of the disease and lack of awareness of available MMDP services and homecare strategies. The health system and culture barriers to seeking healthcare included: long distances to the health facilities, lack of awareness of existing MMDP services, perceived costs of accessing MMDP services, gender and social norms, and fear of stigmatisation. Health seeking behavior for LF in the district is mainly driven by negative beliefs about the causes of the disease and lack of awareness of available MMDP services and homecare strategies. Lymphatic filariasis programs should promote strategies that seek to empower patients and community members with the required information to access and use the MMDP services at the health facilities, as well as adhere to self-care practices in their households. This study provides evidence to guide the formulation of the national MMDP strategy for LF.
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) is transmitted via cell-containing body fluids such as blood products, semen, and breast milk. The viral protein p8 is cleaved from its precursor p12, which is thought to induce cellular protrusions. This allows the virus to infect cells and spread. However, it remains unclear how p8 is transferred to other cells. Here, we show that vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein ( VASP ) is a novel interaction partner of p8 and important for p8 and HTLV-1 Gag cell-to-cell transfer. VASP contains an Ena/VASP homology 1 domain that targets the protein to focal adhesions. Bioinformatics identified a short stretch in p8 ( amino acids ( aa ) 24–45 ) which may mediate interactions with p8. Co-immunoprecipitations confirmed interactions of VASP with p8 in 293T, Jurkat and HTLV-1-infected MT-2 cells. Co-precipitation of VASP:p8 could be significantly blocked by peptides mimicking aa 26–37 of p8. Imaging revealed areas of partial co-localization of VASP with p8 at the plasma membrane and in protrusive structures. Microarray and flow cytometry showed that p8 is transferred between Jurkat T-cells via VASP-containing conduits. Stable repression of VASP by RNA interference or by CRISPR/Cas9 impaired both p8 and HTLV-1 Gag transfer to target Jurkat T-cells. Thus, we identify VASP as a novel interaction partner of p8 and important for p8 and HTLV-1 transmission. Taken together, interactions of p8 with VASP could contribute to viral persistence and spread.
Tinnitus is a common form of auditory hallucinations, which affects the quality of life of many people. It can manifest as a “ringing” or hissing sound across a certain frequency range, typically with a distinct peak. An observable hearing loss, causing auditory sensory deprivation over a band of frequencies, is present in over 90% of people with tinnitus. The underlying mechanisms that drive tinnitus are known to be homeostatic processes, but they have not been explored on large-scale neural networks. Here, we use an objective-driven learning algorithm to model an early auditory processing neuronal network, e. g., in the dorsal cochlear nucleus. We show that the connectivity patterns and responses learned by the model display several hallmarks of early auditory neuronal networks. We further demonstrate that attenuation of peripheral inputs drives the recurrent network towards its critical point and transition into a tinnitus-like state. In this state, the network activity resembles responses to genuine inputs even in the absence of external stimulation, namely, it ‘hallucinates’ auditory responses. These findings demonstrate how objective-driven plasticity mechanisms that normally act to optimize the network’s input representation can also elicit pathologies such as tinnitus as a result of sensory deprivation.
Coronavirus disease is a severe respiratory syndrome caused by the newly emerged betacoronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ) coronavirus. It causes symptoms such as anosmia, ageusia, and neurological complications. The virus infects nasal epithelial cells and tonsils in the respiratory tract, and then propagates from the peripheral nerves to the central nervous system ( CNS ). Infection of the CNS can lead to serious neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson’s disease, frontotemporal degeneration and Alzheimer’s disease. However, the pathogenesis of PHEV infection has not been fully understood. Here, we investigated the neuroinvasion route of PHEV in BALB/c mice. We found that PHEV attacks neurons in the CNS and causes significant smell and taste dysfunction in mice. By tracking neuroinvasion, we identified that PHEV invades the CNS via the olfactory nerve and trigeminal nerve located in the nasal cavity, and olfactory sensory neurons ( OSNs ) were susceptible to viral infection. Immunofluorescence staining and ultrastructural observations revealed that viral materials traveling along axons, suggesting axonal transport may engage in rapid viral transmission in the CNS. Furthermore, viral replication in the olfactory system and CNS is associated with inflammatory and immune responses, tissue disorganization and dysfunction. Overall, we proposed that PHEV may serve as a potential prototype for elucidating the pathogenesis of coronavirus-associated neurological complications and olfactory and gustatory disorders.
The metabolism of glucose is essential for the survival and development of animals and humans. In insects, glucose is digested from food in normal feeding conditions and can be used directly in vivo through glycolysis to produce pyruvic acid ( PA ) and adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ). However, the regulation of glycometabolism homeostasis is not fully understood. To understand how organisms regulate the metabolic processes, we need to know how they regulate the mechanisms by which these organelles are controlled. We used the insect Helicoverpa armigera, cotton bollworm, as a model to study the molecular mechanism by which 20E regulates the expression of transcription factor Krüppel-like factor ( Klf15 ) during metamorphosis. Knockdown of Klf15 delayed pupation and repressed autophagy and apoptosis of larval fat body during metamorphosis. KLF15 upregulated macroautophagy/autophagy, apoptosis and gluconeogenesis. KLF15 bound to the promoter of Atg8 ( autophagy-related gene 8/LC3 ) to upregulate Atg8 expression. Knockdown of Klf15 reduced free fatty acids ( FFAs ), glycerol, free amino acids ( FAAs ) and glucose levels. Taken together, 20E via KLF15 integrated autophagy and gluconeogenesis by promoting autophagy-related and gluconeogenesis-related genes expression. Taken together, 20E via KLF15 integrated autophagy and gluconeogenesis by promoting autophagy-related and gluconeogenesis-related genes expression. Taken together, 20E via KLF15 integrates autophagy and gluconeogenesis by promoting autophagy-related and gluconeogenesis-related genes expression.
The SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus is the most challenging pandemic in history. It causes an outbreak of severe respiratory disease and has been linked to several deaths worldwide. In order to prevent this spread, vaccines are needed to protect against infection. However, it is not clear how these drugs work. To understand how viruses work, scientists need to know how they behave. This is because the virus’ surface is exposed to different types of particles, which can be used as targets for antibodies. Here, we use molecular dynamics simulations to study the structure of the viral spike ( S ) protein. We find that the spike is more flexible than expected from static structures, and that the glycan shield shields the spike from damage. These findings suggest that the protective glycan coat shields the spike from injury, while the high flexibility of its hinges gives it a larger area than expected from static structures. Our computational model will therefore prove useful for other viruses whose structural properties have been studied. Using a large number of atoms, we show that the spike is highly dynamic, with a wide range of epitopes. The resulting analysis could help researchers design new strategies to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. The results will also provide insights into how the immune system works.
The virus SARS-CoV-2 is transmitted by a viral infection called COVID-19. It can be caused by the immune system attacking cells that are secreted from viruses, and it has been shown to cause severe disease in humans. Type I interferons ( IFNs ) are important antiviral molecules that help protect against viruses. However, they have not yet been tested for clinical efficacy against SARS-CoV-2. In this study, researchers used mice with SARS-CoV-2 to develop an experimental model of COVID-19. This mouse was given recombinant type I IFNs, which were found to be effective against SARS-CoV-2. These mice had reduced weight loss and decreased viral lung titers. The results showed that intranasal administration of IFN- starting one day pre-infection or one day post-infection did not affect the clinical course of SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, intranasal administration of IFN- starting three days after infection did not affect the clinical course of SARS-CoV-2 infection. This suggests that early type I IFN treatment may be beneficial, while late interventions are ineffective, although not associated with signs of enhanced disease. Moreover, the timing of type I IFN treatment may also change over time. Therefore, it is important to consider how early type I IFN treatment modulates clinical effectiveness against SARS-CoV-2 infection.
Schistosoma is a parasitic disease caused by blood trematodes of the genus Schistosoma. It causes human schistosomiasis, which can be fatal if not treated properly. The most common cause of this illness is intestinal schistosomiasis, which is transmitted by snails. In Africa, only S. mansoni and S. haematobium are found. However, it has been reported that two species of schistosomes are present in Senegal. This study aims to assess the effectiveness of MALDI-TOF MS for the identification of both frozen and ethanol-stored freshwater snails using protein extracts from different body parts. A total of 530 field specimens belonging to nine species ( Biomphalaria pfeifferi, Bulinus forskalii, Bulinus senegalensis, Bulinus truncatus, Bulinus globosus, Bellamya unicolor, Cleopatra bulimoides, Lymnaea natalensis, Melanoides tuberculata ) were used for this study. For frozen snails, the feet of 127 field and 74 laboratory-reared specimens were used to validate the optimised MALDI-TOF MS protocol. The spectral analysis yielded intra-species reproducibility and inter-species specificity which resulted in the correct identification of all the specimens in blind queries. In addition, we demonstrated that MALDI-TOF MS could also be used to identify ethanol-stored snails using proteins extracted from the foot using a specific database including a large number of ethanol preserved specimens. This study shows for the first time that MALDI-TOF MS is a reliable tool for the rapid identification of frozen and ethanol-stored freshwater snails without any malacological expertise. ## Summary for a layman.
The food and water-borne illness caused by ingestion of ( oo ) cysts of Cryptosporidium and Giardia is one of the major health problems globally. Most of the available methods require a good laboratory facility and well trained user and are therefore costly. There is a need for a simple, easy to use, rapid but reliable method that can be easily implemented in resource limited settings. In this work, we developed a smartphone microscope system that can detect ( oo ) cysts of both Cryptosporidium and Giardia in a given sample. We optimized and measured optical parameters of the microscope including field of view, magnification, and image contrast under different staining conditions. The validity of the developed microscope was tested by spiking the vegetable and water samples with known number of standard ( oo ) cysts samples. Forty-two percent vegetable and thirty-nine percent water samples were found to be contaminated with Cryptosporidium oocyst. Similarly, thirty-one percent vegetable and thirty-three percent water samples were contaminated with Giardia cyst. The newly developed smartphone microscopic method can be a low-cost and easy to implement alternative method for simultaneous detection of ( oo ) cysts in vegetable and water samples in resource limited settings. The new method can be a low-cost and easy to implement alternative method for simultaneous detection of ( oo ) cysts in vegetable and water samples in resource limited settings. ## Summary for a layman.
Echinococcosis is a parasitic disease caused by larval stages of cestodes belonging to the genus Echinococcus and present worldwide. The infection affects people’s health as well as agricultural and pastoral economy. In China, human echinococcosis is a major public health burden, especially in western China. It is a major public health issue in western China. However, this burden is not well assessed in terms of accurate spatial distribution, patterns, and clusters which are of capital importance in public health for effective control measures implementation. This work was conducted in order to prioritize and optimize control actions against human echinococcosis in China, especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Findings from this study indicate that there is an urgent need of joint strategies to strengthen efforts for the prevention and control of echinococcosis in China, especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Findings from this study indicate that there is an urgency to strengthen efforts for the prevention and control of echinococcosis in China, especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Findings from this study indicate that there is an urgent need of joint strategies to strengthen efforts for the prevention and control of echinococcosis in China, especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Findings from this study indicate that there is an urgent need of joint strategies to strengthen efforts for the prevention and control of echinococcosis in China, especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau. Findings from this study indicate that there is an urgent need of joint strategies to strengthen efforts for the prevention and control of echinococcosis in China, especially in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau.
The effectiveness of immunization strategies depends on the ability to identify key nodes and isolate them. In some cases, these nodes are not identified, but they can be removed by immunization. However, in other situations, they may have been missed, or they may have been unobserved. This is a problem endemic to network intervention studies, where the networks are often assumed to be idealized mathematical objects. Here, we investigate how different immunization strategies perform under realistic conditions. We find that global immunization strategies, like degree immunization, are optimal in most cases; however, the exception is at very high levels of missing data, where stochastic strategies, like acquaintance immunization, begin to outstrip them in minimizing outbreaks. Stochastic strategies are more robust in some cases due to the different ways in which they can be affected by missing data. One of our proposed variants of acquaintance immunization leverages a logistically-realistic ongoing survey-intervention process as a form of targeted data-recovery to improve with increasing levels of missing data. These results support the effectiveness of targeted immunization as a general practice. They also highlight the risks of considering networks as idealized mathematics objects: overestimating the accuracy of network data and foregoing the rewards of additional inquiry. In this article, we explore the effectiveness of targeted immunization strategies under realistic conditions—where the strategies are informed by partially-observed network data. Our findings suggest that global immunization strategies, like degree immunization, are optimal in most cases; the exception is at very high levels of missing data, where stochastic strategies, like acquaintance immunization, become more robust in some cases. Stochastic strategies are more robust in some cases due to the different ways in which they can be affected by missing data. In fact, one of our proposed variants of acquaintance immunization utilizes a logistically-realistic ongoing survey-intervention process as a form of targeted data-recovery to improve with increasing levels of missing data. These results support the effectiveness of targeted immunization as a general practice. They also highlight the risk of considering networks as idealized mathematical objects: overestimating the accuracy of network data and foregoing the rewards of additional inquiry.
The brain is a complex organ that contains many different cells. Its functions are controlled by the electrical activity of neurons and other tissues, which can be measured in the form of recordings. In animals and humans, the extracellular potential is an important source of information. We use this technique to study how the brain works. For example, we measure the current in the barrel cortex, which is located inside the cerebellum. This means that the electrodes are embedded in the cell membrane, and the currents are driven by ionic currents arising from the ion channels. These currents drive the flow of energy across the nerve fibers. When the current flows through the nerve fibers, it causes the neuron to move, which leads to the movement of the nerve fibers. To understand how these changes occur, researchers need to know exactly what information about the extracellular potential is available. Here, Weisman et al. have used a method called kernel Current Source Density to determine the exact amount of data that could be recovered. By using a neural imaging probe, we show that for any given distribution of electrodes we can establish precisely what information about the extracellular potential can be recovered and what information is strictly unobservable. We demonstrate this in the general setting of previously proposed kernel Current Source Density method and illustrate it with simplified examples as well as using evoked potentials from the barrel cortex obtained with a Neuropixels probe. We also show that with conceptual separation of the estimation space from experimental setup one can recover sources not accessible to standard methods. The extracellular potential that we measure is a consequence of ionic currents driving ion currents through the ion channel embedded in neuronal and glial membranes, as well as capacitive currents arising in response to potential gradients across the membrane. Assuming isotropic and homogeneous tissue the Poisson equation reduces to C = -  V ( 2 ) which can be easily solved: V ( x ) = 1 4    d x ′ C ( x ′ ) | x - x ′ | y ). We show that with conceptual separation of the estimation space from experimental setup one can recover sources not accessible to standard methods. We also show that with conceptual separation of the estimation space from experimental setup one can recover sources not accessible to standard methods.
The parasite Plasmodium falciparum ( Pf ) and P. vivax ( Pv ) are the most common human malaria parasites in Africa, Asia and Europe. However, there is little knowledge about how these species interact with each other. In particular, little is known about interactions between different Plasmodium species. Here we developed molecular diagnostics for detecting gametocytes of all four major human Plasmodium species. These assays were implemented in Papua New Guinea, where they were used to study the effects of co-infection on gametocyte production and transmission. This was the first study to describe molecular detection of gametocytes of all four Plasmodium species. The observed frequency of Pf-Pv co-infection was higher than expected from individual prevalence rates. The observed frequency of Pf-Pv co-infection was 1. 38 ( 95% confidence interval ( CI ): 1. 09, 1. 67 ) for all parasites and 1. 37 ( 95% CI: 0. 95, 1. 79 ) for gametocytes. The excess risk of co-infection was 1. 38 ( 95% CI: 1. 09, 1. 79 ) for all parasites and 1. 37 ( 95% CI: 0. 95, 1. 79 ) for gametocytes. This was partially attributable to infections clustering in some villages. Pf-Pv-Pm triple infection was four times more frequent than expected by chance alone, which could not be fully explained by infections clustering in highly exposed individuals. The effect of co-infection on parasite density was analyzed by systematic comparison of all pairwise interactions. This revealed a significant 6. 57-fold increase of Pm density when co-infected with Pf. Pm gametocytemia. This was significantly increased when co-infected with Pf. Pm gametocytemia. The effect of co-infection on parasite density was analyzed by systematic comparison of all pairs. This was the first description of molecular diagnostics for Pm and Po gametocytes. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials. gov, Trial ID: NCT02143934.
The methylation of DNA is an important factor that affects the development of cancer. However, it remains unclear how these changes influence the outcome of cancer. In this study, we use a method called intersection-union survival mixture-adjusted mediation test ( IUSMMT ) to investigate the effect of multiple DNA methylations acting as exposures and identifying genes with mediating effects. We found that most of the identified regions were cancer type-specific and showed full mediation from DNA methylation CpG sites to the survival risk of various types of cancers. Overall, IUSMMT represents an effective and powerful alternative for survival mediation analysis; our results also provide new insights into the functional role of DNA methylation and gene expression in cancer progression/prognosis and demonstrate potential therapeutic targets for future clinical practice. ## Summary for a layman : A simple way to analyze data from the Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) project. This paper describes a novel approach to studying the interaction between DNA methylation and disease outcomes. It uses a three-component null distribution to model the interactions between DNA methylation CpG sites and the survival risk of different kinds of cancers. The result shows that the mediators are not only active but also have a direct causal relationship with the survival risk of cancer patients. Overall, IUSMMT represents an effective and powerful tool for survival mediation analysis; our findings also provide new insight into the function of DNA methylation and gene expression in cancer progression/prognosis and demonstrate potential therapeutic targets for future clinical practice. ## Overall, IUSMMT represents an effective and powerful alternative for survival mediation analysis; our results also provide new insights into the functional role of DNA methylation and gene expression in cancer progression/prognosis and demonstrate potential therapeutic targets for future clinical practice. ***  2017 NIH Public Access Author Contribution
The worm Pristionchus pacificus is an example of a model organism that has evolved to develop two different mouth forms. Eu morphs are the most common and have wide teeth, while St morphs are restricted to one tooth. However, they can also be used as predatory for other insects. This means that a variety of traits can emerge from these worms. In this study, we investigated how the genes involved in developing mouth-form plasticity were controlled. We found that mutants in the nuclear hormone receptor nhr-1 had previously unseen effects on their development. These mutations disrupted the determination of the jaw-form, which was associated with changes in the shape of both wild-type morphs. Mutants in another conserved gene, NHR-40, shared transcriptional targets, which encode extracellular proteins that have no orthologs in Caenorhabditis elegans. An array of transcriptomic reporters revealed co-expression of all tested targets in the same gland cell. Major morphological changes in this gland cell accompanied the evolution of teeth and predation, linking rapid gene turnover with morphological innovations. Thus, the origin of feeding plasticity involved novelty at the level of genes, cells and behavior. Ultimately, the identification of gene regulatory networks ( GRN ) controlling mouth-form plasticity will provide an understanding of development in novel environments and enable the testing of theories about the long-term evolutionary significance of plasticity.
Ca2+ alternans are a phenomenon that occurs in cardiac myocytes. The normal carotid rhythm is maintained by the activation of mitochondrial calcium cycling, which is essential for maintaining the function of excitation-contraction coupling. However, it is difficult to dissect the mechanisms responsible for these events. In this study, we use computer simulations to investigate the underlying mechanisms of Ca2+ alternans under abnormal mitochondrial depolarization. We show that mitochondrial depolarization promotes Ca2+ alternans acutely via the redox effect of ROS and chronically by ATP reduction. This suggests that mitochondrial depolarization may suppress Ca2+ alternans chronically through oxidized CaMKII signaling. These results suggest that mitochondrial depolarization promotes Ca2+ alternans acutely via the redox effect of ROS and chronically by ATP reduction. This work is the first to explore how mitochondrial depolarisation contributes to Ca2+ alternans. It also provides new insights into the role of mitochondria in the regulation of Ca2+ cycling. The findings will help scientists understand the mechanisms that drive Ca2+ alternans. Using computer simulations, we demonstrate that mitochondrial depolarization promotes Ca2+ alternans acutely via the redox effect of ROS and chronically by ATP reduction. This study could be used to identify potential therapeutic targets for heart disease or other diseases.
Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) is a severe global public health problem caused by Hantaviruses. It has been recognized as a serious global public health problem and it remains one of the top nine communicable diseases in mainland China. In recent years, China has reported over 1. 56 million HFRS cases with a fatality rate of nearly 3. 0%. However, the precise reasons for this phenomenon have not yet been identified. The present work aims to investigate how rapid urbanization, water bodies, vegetation, rainfall, and occupation type affect the epidemiology of HFRS from year 2005 to 2018 in Xi’an City, Northwest China. We used satellite data and satellite imagery to conduct geostatistical analyses to understand the association between rapid urbanization, water bodies, and other factors on the spatiotemporal dynamics of HFRS from year 2005 to 2018 in Xi’an City. The results revealed an evident epidemic aggregation in the incidence of HFRS within Xi’an City with a phenomenal fluctuation in periodic time series. Rapid urbanization was found to greatly influence the HFRS incidence in two different time phases. HFRS caused by urbanization influences farmers to a lesser extent than it does to non-farmers. The association of water bodies with the HFRS incidence rate was found to be higher within the radii of 696. 15 m and 1575. 39 m, which represented significant thresholds. The results also showed that geomatics approaches can be used for spatially investigating the HFRS dynamic characteristics and supporting effective allocations of resources to formulate strategies for preventing epidemics. ## Summary for a layman. In this paper, we used surveyed HFRS data and satellite imagery to conduct geostatistical analysis for investigating the associations of rapid urbanization, water bodies, vegetation, rainfall, and occupation type in Xi’an City, northwest China. The findings revealed an apparent epidemic aggregation in the incidence of HFRS within Xi’an City with a tremendous fluctuations in periodic time series. Rapid urbanization was found to significantly impact the HFRS incidence in two different time periods. HFRS caused by urbanization influences farmers to a lesser extent than it does to non-farmers. The association of water bodies with the HFRS incidence rate was found to be higher within the radii of 696. 15 m and 1575. 39 m, which represents significant thresholds. The results also showed that geomatics approaches can be used for spatiotemporally investigating the HFRS dynamic characteristics and supporting effective allocations of resources to formulate strategies for preventing epidemics.
Helicobacter pylori is an infectious disease that causes ulcers and gastric cancer in approximately half of the world’s population. Infections persist throughout life without intervention and can lead to gastric and duodenal ulcers, MALT lymphoma, and gastric cancer in a subset of individuals. The presence of genetic diversity within a single host is driven by strain properties and host responses; however, the extent of genetic variation within a single individual is not well understood. To understand how genetic differences contribute to phenotypic changes associated with H. pylori pathogenesis, we used whole genome sequencing of multiple isolates from a single subject at two time points spanning six years ( 1994–2000 ). We identified 1, 767 unique single nucleotide polymorphisms across isolates and a nucleotide substitution rate of 1. 3x10-4 substitutions/site/year. Gene ontology analysis revealed cell envelope genes among the genes with excess accumulation of nonsynonymous SNPs. A maximum likelihood tree based on genetic similarity clusters isolated from each time point separately. Within time points, there is segregation of subgroups with phenotypic differences in bacterial morphology, ability to induce inflammatory cytokines, and mouse colonization. Higher inflammatory cytokine induction maps to shared polymorphisms in the Cag PAI protein, CagY, while rod morphology in a subgroup of recent isolates mapped to eight mutations in three distinct helical cell shape determining ( csd ) genes. The presence of subgroups with unique genetic and phenotypic properties suggest complex selective forces and multiple niches within the stomach during chronic infection. Despite this, it remains unclear how these diverse populations are affected by the effects of chronic infection. Here, Welch et al. have combined whole genome sequence analysis of multiple isolates from a single individual and analyzed their genomic DNA. This study highlights the importance of genetic diversification in predicting the outcome of chronic infection. It also provides insight into the mechanisms that drive the evolution of bacterial species and suggests that the genetic basis for the diversity of bacterial communities is complex. ## Summary for a layman.
Soil-transmitted helminths ( STH ) are the most common worms in tropical and subtropical countries. They cause severe morbidity in children and women of reproductive age, and are responsible for over 1. 5 billion deaths worldwide. In addition to improving sanitation, the World Health Organization recommends preventive chemotherapy ( PC ) to control these infections. However, the current approach has not been consistently administered. The WHO recommends that the intervention be improved to reduce the prevalence and intensity of STH infection. This is probably due to irregular PC, climatic conditions favourable to STH transmission, the low sensitivity of T. trichiura to benzimidazoles, high population density and poor sanitation. Improvement of sanitation coverage remains a key measure to permanently reduce the prevalence and intensity of STH. Possible changes to the present PC approaches to better control STH in Pemba Island would be ( i ) to ensure high coverage in all schools, ( ii ) to use mebendazole instead of albendazole given its better activity on T. trichiura and ( iii ) to use a combination of ivermectin and mebendazole to further increase anthelminthic efficacy on T. trichiura. The World Health Organization recommends preventive chemotherapy ( PC ) to control STH infection in Pemba Island. However, despite its beneficial impact, both the prevalence and intensity of STH infections remain high, and the intervention has been insufficient in controlling STH morbidity. This is likely due to a combination of irregular PC, climatic conditions favourable to STH transmission, the low sensitivity of T. trichiura to benzimidazoles, high population density and poor sanitation. Improvement of sanitation coverage remains a key measure to permanent reduce the prevalence and intensity of STH. Possible changes to the present PC approaches to better control STH in Pemba Island would be ( i ) to assure high coverage in all schools, ( ii ) to use mebendazole instead of Albendazole given its better activity on T. trichiura and ( iii ) to use a combination of ivermectin and mebendazole to further increase anthelminthic efficacy on T. trichiura.
Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is an alphavirus that has rapidly spread around the globe. It enters cells via clathrin-mediated endocytosis and delivers the viral particle to early endosomes where membrane fusion is observed. The virus particles are transported along microtubules and are often driven by motor proteins, which transport the viruses into the cell. However, the exact mechanism of this movement remains unclear. In this study, we examined the intracellular trafficking behavior of chikungunya virus during cell entry and found two distinct patterns: half of the particles were static during cell entry and fused in the cell periphery, the other was fast-directed microtubule-dependent movement prior to delivery to Rab5-positive early endosomes. Disruption of the microtubule network reduced the number of infected cells. At these conditions, membrane hemifusion activity was not affected yet fusion was restricted to the cell periphery. Furthermore, follow-up experiments revealed that disruption of the microtubule network impairs the delivery of the viral genome to the cell cytosol. We therefore hypothesize that microtubules may direct the particle to a cellular location that is beneficial for establishing infection or aids in nucleocapsid uncoating. This work was published in Nature Biotechnology.
The bacterial cell uses second messengers to transduce external signals into specific cellular responses. In bacteria, the first messenger is essential for growth under optimal conditions, but it is not intrinsically present in eukaryotic organisms. To achieve appropriate responses to changing environmental conditions, bacteria use second messengers which are formed in response to an environment cue. Cyclic di-adenosine monophosphate ( c-di-AMP ) is the only known essential nucleotide second messenger. However, the molecule is essential in many bacteria that produce it. Here, we identified two distinct mutations that affect glutamate and potassium homeostasis. These mutations affected several proteins involved in transporting glutamate and serine. We found that some of these mutants could suppress glutamate toxicity by a combination of mutations that affect phospholipid biosynthesis and a gain-of-function mutation of a mechanosensitive channel of small conductance ( YfkC ) resulting in acquisition of a device for glutamate export. Cultivation of the c-di-AMP-free strain on complex medium was an even greater challenge because the amounts of potassium, glutamate, and other osmolytes are substantially higher than in minimal medium. Suppressor mutants viable on complex medium could only be isolated under anaerobic conditions if one of the two c-di-AMP receptor proteins, DarA or DarB, was absent. Also on complex medium, potassium and osmolyte toxicity are the major bottlenecks for the growth of B. subtilis in the absence of c-di-AMP. Our results indicate that the essentiality of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis is caused by the global impact of the second messenger nucleotide on different aspects of cellular physiology. Among these mutations, several independent mutations affected a novel glutamate transporter, AimA ( Amino acid importer A, formerly YbeC ). This protein is the major transporter for glutamate and serine in B. subtilis. Unexpectedly, some of the isolate mutants could suppress glutamate toxicity by a combination of mutations that affect phospholipid biosynthesis and a specific gain-of-function mutation of a mechanosensitive channel of small conductance ( YfkC ) resulting in the acquisition of a device for glutamate export. Cultivation of the c-di-AMP-free strain on complex medium was an even greater challenge because the quantities of potassium, glutamate, and other osmolytes are significantly higher than in minimal medium. Suppression mutants viable on complex medium could only be isolated under anaerobic conditions if one of the two c-di-AMP receptor proteins, DarA or DarB, was absent. Our findings shed light on the complexicity of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis. It has been hypothesized that the essentiality of c-di-AMP in B. subtilis is caused by the global impact of the second messenger nucleotide on different aspects of cellular physiology.
Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is the most common carcinogen in humans and can cause lymphomas and epithelial cell cancers. It causes endemic Burkitt lymphoma in Africa and B-cell lymphoproliferative diseases ( LPD ) in immunocompromised individuals. Treatment of these conditions involves treatment with chemotherapy or surgery, but it is not widely available. In addition to being an important drug target for patients with LPD, EBV also has been linked to other types of cancers. The disease is caused by EBV oncoproteins that drive B cells to proliferate rapidly. However, the immune system cannot prevent this process. This means that EBV-infected cells are susceptible to PARP inhibition, which is known to be responsible for many different kinds of cancers. Here, we have identified genes that are associated with susceptibility to PARP inhibitors. These include Chk1, a protein that protects against DNA double-strand breaks, and RAD51 nucleation. We then show that Chk1 phosphorylates Chk1, causing a defect in Chk1, which makes EBV-transformed cells vulnerable to PARP inhibition. Our findings suggest that EBV-transformed cells are likely to respond to synthetic lethal PARP inhibitors, and thus may benefit from T cell therapies. These results also provide evidence that EBV-related and -unrelated blood and other cancers are likely to respond to synthetic lethal PARP inhibitors. These studies highlight the need for additional strategies to treat EBV-related and -unrelated cancers. These findings also help us understand how EBV-induced mutations in human cells can affect their ability to proliferate. These findings also reveal the potential for new treatments for LPD, which could lead to better outcomes for transplant recipients.
Buruli ulcer is a chronic debilitating disease caused by an environmental Mycobacterium ulcerans ( M. ulcerans ), which causes severe skin damage and can lead to death. The diagnosis of this disease is crucial for the prevention of diseases such as malaria and leprosy. However, it has been reported in over 33 countries worldwide, with most cases being detected in Western and Central Africa sub-regions. In order to control this neglected tropical disease, early diagnostic tests are essential. This means that patients receive quality clinical results and prevent future complications. Since the development of combination antibiotic therapy, the use of excision surgery as the standard treatment for BU, pre-treatment confirmation of the clinical diagnosis is important. But the knowledge on the mechanism of transmission of the causative agent, Mycobacterium ulcerans, remains unclear. Therefore, the WHO recommends PCR confirmation before starting chemotherapy. However, the rate of PCR confirmation in endemic African countries has declined, from 50 to 20%. The lack of funding to sustain the EQA program was due to lack of support from NGOs. To achieve this goal, 11 laboratories of 9 endemic countries ( Benin, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of Congo, Gabon, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria and Togo ) formed a network of laboratory laboratories. The first step of the network was to harmonize the procedures and ship specific reagents to each laboratory. With this system in place, implementation of these procedures for testing and follow-up was easy and the laboratories were able to carry out their first quality control with a very high success rate. It is now time to integrate other neglected tropical diseases to this platform, such as yaws or leprosy.
The cluster-of-Differentiation-44 protein ( CD44 ) is involved in many cell processes, including inflammation, cancer invasiveness and migration. Its role in the movement of cells is also important for its ability to adapt to different environments. In particular, it can be found in membrane proteins that are used as scaffolds for transporting molecules. However, the molecular mechanisms that control this process remain elusive. Here, we use a novel method called Molecular Dynamics Simulation ( CG ) to study how CD44 moves into and out of the lipid raft domains. We show that both factors have opposite effects on the activity of CD44, but the effect of palmitoylations and PIP2 lipids remains unclear. This work reveals that the interaction between CD44 and ERM proteins is controlled by two distinct pathways: palmitoylations keeps CD44 in lipid raft domains and disables the linking to the cytoplasmic tail, while PIP2 lipids have the opposite effect. Furthermore, we studied the association between CD44 and the membrane adaptor FERM in dependence of these factors. Our results shed light on the sophisticated mechanism on how membrane translocation and peripheral protein association can be controlled by both protein modifications and membrane composition. Together, our findings shed light on the complex mechanism on how membrane translocation and peripheral protein association can be controlled by both protein modification and membrane composition.
The rafts of fire ants ( Solenopsis invicta ) are often studied for their ability to create aggregated structures comprised entirely of their own bodies, including tether-like protrusions that facilitate exploration of and escape from flooded environments. While similar protrusions are observed in cytoskeletons and cellular aggregates, they are generally dependent on morphogens or external gradients leaving the isolated role of local interactions poorly understood. Here we use an ant-inspired phenomenological model to study how protrusions in ant rafts may emerge spontaneously due to local interaction rules. We capture the behavior of each individual ant in the structural and freely active layers of the network, and then show how these self-propelled free ants walk with some mean persistence length and speed. In addition, we demonstrate how phases of exploratory protrusion growth may be induced by increased ant activity as characterized by a dimensionless parameter, A. These results provide an example in which functional morphogenesis of a living system may arise purely from local interactions at the constituent length scale, thereby providing a source of inspiration for the development of decentralized, autonomous active matter and robotics. ## Summary for a layman.  2017 Wiley Science. All rights reserved.
The olfactory system of mosquitoes is composed of various proteins that are expressed in the body and can be used to detect scents. In order to find food, mosquitoes must feed on blood. Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus is an important vector of human diseases. It is known as underground mosquitoes because they invade basements, sewers, pipes, and other structures. However, Cx. quinquefasciatus mates in open spaces, feeding on mammals, and lay eggs without a meal. Adult females diapause through winter and swarm in open waters. They breed on open water, such as lakes and fetid ditches. Cx. quinquefasciatus mate in confined space, feeds on birds and mammals, and must feed on blood to complete their reproductive cycle. Cx. quinquefasciatus is able to lay eggs without a blood meal. This means that females cannot enter diapause in winter. Cx. quinquefasciatus is also capable of carrying out egg-laying experiments. Therefore, it is crucial to understand how these two species interact to control mosquito-borne disease. To do this, we sequenced the genomes of both Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. molestus. We found that the genes involved in blood-feeding behaviors were different from those expressed in Cx. molestus. These differences could help us identify new targets for screening effective repellent compounds to control mosquito-borne diseases effectively and efficiently. Using RNAi, we identified five, 7, 24, and 3 Cx. quinquefasciatus-specific OBPs, Cx. molestus-specific ORs and Cx. molestus-specific ORs. The results suggest that the olfactory gene repertoire of Cx. quinquefasciatus and Cx. molestus may play a role in the blood-feeding behavior of Cx. quinquefasciatus. The olfactory genes involved in blood-feeding behavior could provide new targets for screening effective repellent compounds to control mosquito-borne diseases effectively and efficiently.
The hippocampus is the brain’s central nervous system. It contains neurons that fire action potentials when the animal is in a specific location within the environment. These cells are thought to encode and store new memories by taking part in activity-dependent synaptic plasticity. However, how these place fields are formed is not clear. In this paper, we develop a computational model of the hippocampal CA1 network, which describes the formation, dynamics and stabilization of place field formation. We show that although somatic disinhibition is sufficient to form place fields, dendritic inhibition along with synaptic plasticity is necessary for place field stability. Our model suggests that place cell stability can be attributed to strong excitatory synaptic weights and strong dendritic inhibition. We show that the interplay between somatic and dendritic inhibition balances the increased excitatory weights, such that place cells return to their baseline firing rate after exploration. Our model suggests that different types of interneurons are essential to unravel the mechanisms underlying place field plasticity. Finally, we predict artificially induced dendritic events can shift place field locations even after place field stabilisation. This work was published in Nature Neuroscience. It was supported by grants from the National Science Foundation.  2017 Nature Biotechnology Research Centre. All rights reserved.
The emergence of onchocerciasis in the world is a major public health problem. It has been estimated that more than half of people worldwide are at risk of developing onchocerciasis, and it can be difficult to control. Control programmes often use an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) to detect O. volvulus DNA in mosquitoes. However, skin snip surveys are sensitive and specific, but they are not suitable for monitoring the prevalence of onchocerciasis in humans. In this study, we assessed the sensitivity of MX for detecting onchocerciasis-positive communities. We found that most community areas with 1% mf prevalence were at advanced stages towards elimination. This was due to the fact that mf prevalence accounts for half of the variation in MX rate. These studies have been published in several countries, including Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela. The results show that MX rates are sensitive to populations with ongoing transmission. However, the relationship between MX rates and human prevalence remains unclear. To understand how MX rates affect human prevalence, we conducted a systematic review of 15 relevant studies. Most communities had no or extremely low human prevalence. MX detected positive flies in every study area with >1% mf prevalence, with the exception of one study conducted in the Venezuelan Amazonian focus. We identified a significant relationship between the two measurements, with mf prevalence accounting for half of the variation in MX rate. MX is sensitive to communities with ongoing onchocerciasis transmission. It has potential to predict human mf prevalence, but further data is required to understand this relationship, particularly from MX surveys conducted earlier in control programmes before transmission has been interrupted. The overall aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic accuracy of MX methods for characterising the community burden of onchocerciasis. The primary objective was to evaluate the sensitivity of MX methods for identifying onchocerciasis-positive communities and the relationship between MX rates and mf prevalence. We identified 15 relevant studies, with 13 studies comprising 34 study communities. Most communities were at advanced stages towards elimination and had no or extremely low human prevalence. MX detected positive flies in every study area with >1% mf prevalence, with the exception of one study conducted in the Venezuelan Amazonian focus. We identified a significant relationship between the two measurements, with mf prevalence accounting for half of the variation in MX rate.
Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium leprae. It causes severe symptoms in people with leprosy and can be fatal if left untreated. The infection is transmitted by bacteria that cause infections in humans and animals, but it has been known for decades that pathogens exploit phagocytosis to parasitize host cells. In this study, we investigated whether MASP1 gene variants and products are associated with susceptibility to leprosy and to different clinical forms of the disease. We found that MASP-1 protein levels were lower in patients than controls, and higher MASP-3 levels were present in those with mutations in the MASP1 gene. These findings suggest that the lectin pathway may play an important role in the establishment of infection and development of leprosy. However, the roles played by these proteins have never been studied in leprosy. Here, we used multiplex sequence-specific PCR to identify five MASP1 polymorphisms that affect leprosy susceptibility. This revealed that lower MASP-1 levels were observed in patients compared with controls. Higher MASP3 levels were observed in patients compared with controls carrying variants/haplotypes associated with leprosy resistance. These results highlight the importance of lectin pathway regulation against pathogens that manipulate phagocytosis to parasitize host macrophages. The lectin pathway is also involved in the formation of membrane pores ( membrane attack complexes ) formed by C4 and MAp44. These molecules are responsible for preventing the growth of lymphocytes, which are essential for the survival of the immune system. The results show that the lectin pathway plays an important role in the establishment of infection and development of leprosy. The results suggest that the lectin pathway may contribute to the prevention of leprosy.
The ability to adapt to changing environments is a key factor in the evolution of organisms. In particular, it can help them survive and thrive in a variety of different conditions. However, it is not clear how these adaptations are achieved. For example, bacteria grow on two carbon sources, glucose and acetate. This means that cells must first start growing on both carbon sources. When the environment switches from the superior to the inferior carbon source, all cells begin to grow on the superior carbon source. But when the environment changes from the superior to the inferior carbon source, only a small fraction of cells manage to initiate growth. Therefore, the population becomes more susceptible to bottlenecks. To investigate this phenomenon, we used an experimental model of Escherichia coli growth on two alternative carbon sources. On the superior carbon source, all cells achieve high growth rates, while on the inferior carbon source, only a few cells manage to initiate growth. Consequently, populations experience a bottleneck when the environment changes from the superior to the inferior carbon source. Hence, populations experience a bottleneck when the environment changes from the superior to the inferior carbon source. Moreover, noise in the expression of a transcription factor increases the probability that cells start growing on the inferior carbon source. Thus, noise can increase the fitness effects of a beneficial mutation that increases the fraction of a population initiating growth on acetate. This effect can also protect this allele from extinction, accelerate its spread, and increase its likelihood of going to fixation. The main idea behind our study is that noise can mitigate population bottlenecks, particularly in environments that fluctuate periodically. Because such bottlenecks are frequent in fluctuating environments, this principle may apply to a broad range of environments and organisms. We therefore believe that noise can speed up evolutionary adaptation, particularly in environments that fluctuate periodically.
Dengue virus ( DENV ) is an enveloped viral virus that infects 400 million people worldwide every year and is transmitted by the Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus species of mosquitoes. The 3’UTR is located at the end of the genome of the virus, which contains two untranslated regions: 5’ and 3’. These are the three regions that encode the DNA sequence for the viruses. In order to replicate, the viral RNA must be read by the cell membrane. This process involves a complex of proteins called proteins that interact with the viral RNA. One protein called Sec61A1 is known to coat the entire positive-stranded viral RNA, while another protein called Loquacious ( Loqs ) is required for viral replication. However, it has been unclear how these molecules interact with the viral RNA. Here, Weisman et al. used biotinylation techniques to identify proteins that form complexes with the viral RNA. They found that both Sec61A1 and Loqs have pro-viral functions in the dengue viral infectious cycle. Co-localization and pulldown assays showed that Loqs interacts with viral protein NS3 and both full-length and subgenomic viral RNAs. While Loqs coats the whole negative-stranded viral RNA, it binds selectively to the 3’ end of the negative-strand of the viral RNA. In-depth analyses revealed that Loqs did not affect translation or turnover of the viral RNA but modulated viral replication. Loqs also displayed pro-viral functions for several flaviviruses in infected mosquito cells, suggesting a conserved role for Loqs in flavivirus-infected mosquito cells. Loqs also displays pro-viral functions for several flaviviruses in infected mosquito cells, suggesting a conserved role for Loqs in flavivirus-infected mosquito cells.
The ecosystem is a complex network of organisms that live in different environments. In particular, the environment affects biodiversity and diversity. It can be difficult to understand how environmental changes are related to species richness and evenness. However, it is possible to study how these effects are linked to populations. Here we present a quantitative analysis of the effect of seasonal and stochastic variations on communities of competing species. We show that stochastic fluctuations may support the storage effect ( global competition ) or not ( local competition ). When this number is large, global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness. Surprisingly, when the number of temporal niches is small, global competition acts to reduce species richness and evenness. This scenario is impossible if the variations are periodic. In diverse communities, where the steady-state reflects a colonization-extinction equilibrium, the actual number of temporal niches is shown to play a crucial role. When the number of temporal niches is large, global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness. Surprisingly, when the number of temporal niches is small global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness. When the number of temporal niches is small global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness. Surprisingly, when the number of temporal niches is large global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness. This scenario is impossible if the variations are periodic. In contrast, when the number of temporal niches is large global competition acts to decrease species richness and evenness. This study provides two main insights: first, all other things being equal, a community is more stable under periodic variations. Second, the number of temporal niches is larger than the number of species. This means that the effect of seasonal variations is negligible if the variations are periodic. This suggests that the potential role of seasonal variations in protecting genetic polymorphism is negligible.
The RNAs that encode proteins are known as functional non-coding ( fnc ) RNAs. They regulate transcription and translation, maintain genome stability, and play an important role in diseases. In the past 30 years, many new forms of fnc RNA have been discovered. These include ribosomal rRNA, transfer tRNA, small nucleolar sno RNA, microRNAs, and tRNA maturation enzyme RNAse P. However, the evolutionary history of these molecules has not yet fully explained how they function. Here, we use Evolutionary Trace to identify functionally important bases in 1070 functional RNAs. We found that the top-ranked bases clustered in secondary and tertiary structures, which were similar to those seen in proteins. This suggests that evolution is likely to be more complex than previously thought. As a result, this approach can help scientists understand the molecular basis of RNA functions. For example, we show that the structure of the ribosome is much smoother than that observed in other protein types. Furthermore, our results suggest that evolutionary constraints among sequence, structure, and function are similar in structured RNA and proteins. Moreover, this generalization of ET allows us to better predict functional sites for specific RNA molecules. This work is broadly relevant to studies of structural function in ribosomes, including ribosomal rRNA, transfer tRNA, microRNAs, and tRNA mature formation. Using Evolutionary Trace, we show that evolutionary constrains between sequence, structure, and function are similar in structured RNA and proteins. This work is broadly relevant to studies of structure-function in ribosomes, and is relevant to studies of structure-function in ribosomes. As such, it is important to understand the determinants of function in RNA.
The spread of infectious diseases is a complex and high-dimensional problem. It requires the identification of the source or origin of an epidemic, which can be difficult to do if the data are incomplete. In this paper, we investigate the source detection problem in epidemiology, which is one of the most important issues for control of epidemics. We use a stochastic, spatially explicit model of waterborne disease to calibrate our method. Our estimator only relies on first-arrival times of the outbreak, and we adopt a Bayesian perspective, so that prior information on source location can be incorporated ( e. g., reflecting the impact of local conditions ). Importantly, our estimator only requires first-arrival times of the epidemic by putative observers, typically located only at a small proportion of nodes. This means that we can accurately estimate the number of nodes that are likely to be spreading origin of the observed process. Our approach is demonstrated within the context of the 2000–2002 cholera outbreak in the KwaZulu-Natal province of South Africa. We show that our method is more robust than previous methods based on network-distance-based approaches. We also demonstrate that our methodology has improved over previous studies. The results show that our method is more accurate than previously proposed methods. The authors have now developed a new algorithm that allows for the integration of nontrivial prior knowledge from previously observed transmission patterns. The results show that our method is better than previous methods based on sensor-based sources. The authors also highlight the importance of using human mobility networks to identify the source node. The authors also note that the method is not limited to the study of cholera and other related infections. The authors also point out that the method is not limited to the analysis of the distribution of the population. Overall, our work highlights the need for further research into the role of human mobility in the spread of infectious diseases.
The use of multiplex imaging techniques has expanded the depth of information that can be captured within a single tissue sample by allowing for panels with dozens of markers. However, it is still limited due to technical artifacts, tissue loss, and long imaging acquisition time. As such, selecting which markers to include on a panel is important, since removing important markers will result in a loss of biologically relevant information. To address this, we propose computational approaches to determine the amount of shared information between markers and select an optimally reduced panel that captures maximum amount of information with the fewest markers. We show that all methods perform adequately and can reconstruct the full panel’s information using only 18 of 25 markers ( 72% of the original panel size ). The correlation-based selection methods achieved the best single-cell marker mean intensity predictions with a Spearman correlation of 0. 90 with the reduced panel. This means that researchers can design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained with the limited number of markers. Using the proposed methods shown here, it is possible for researchers to design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximise the amount of information retained with respect to certain evaluation metrics and architecture biases. Using the proposed methods shown here, it is possible for researchers to design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained with respect to certain evaluation metrics and architectural biases. Using the proposed methods shown here, it is possible for researchers to design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained with respect to certain evaluation metrics and architecture biases. Using the proposed methods shown here, it is possible for researchers to design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained with respect to certain evaluation metrics and architecture biases. Using the proposed methods shown here, it is possible for researchers to design more efficient multiplex imaging panels that maximize the amount of information retained with respect to certain evaluation metrics and architecture biases.
Leptospirosis is a disease caused by leptospira, which causes severe kidney damage and death in humans. The infection of the liver and kidneys is characterized by an acute phase of infection, followed by an immune phase, where leptospires are eliminated from all organs except the renal. In some cases, leptospires can cause acute kidney injury or chronic kidney disease ( CKD ). However, the mechanisms that lead to this type of illness are not well understood. We investigated the relationship between leptospirosis and chronic kidney disease using a hamster model. Hamsters were subcutaneously infected with 1104 cells of the Leptospira interrogans serovar Manilae strain UP-MMC-SM. A total of 53 infected hamsters developed fatal acute leptospirosis, and the remaining 15 hamsters recovered from the acute phase, 13 of which showed Leptospira colonization in the kidneys in the chronic phase. Immunofluorescence staining revealed that leptospires were locally distributed in the renal interstitium in the early acute phase and then spread continuously into the surrounding interstitium. The kidneys of the surviving hamsters in the chronic phase showed patchy lesions of atrophic tubules, a finding of chronic tubular atrophy, leading to CKD. The degree of atrophic tubules in kidney sections correlated statistically with serum creatinine level in the chronic phase. We suggest that the distribution of leptospires during the acute phase probably affected the extent of tubular atrophy, leading to CKD. The kidneys of the surviving hamsters in the chronic phase showed patchesy lesions of atrophic tubules, a finding of chronic tubular atrophy, which were substantially consistent with the distribution of leptospires in the renal interstitium. The degree of atrophic tubules in kidney sections correlated statistically with the serum creatinine level in the chronic phase. The degree of atrophic tubules in kidney sections correlated statistically with the serum creatinine level in the chronic phase. The kidneys of the surviving hamsters in the chronic phase showed patchy lesions of atrophic tubules, a finding of chronic tubular atrophy, leading to CKD. The study suggests that the renal distribution of leptospires during the acute phase probably affected the extent of tubular atrophy, leading to chronic kidney disease.
Talaromycosis is a tropical infectious disease that causes severe morbidity and mortality in people with HIV/AIDS. In China, the number of cumulative reports of talaromycosis cases is estimated at 288, 000, with more than 30, 000 patients reported in Guangxi. The proportion of HIV/AIDS-related deaths due to talaromycosis increased from 11. 5% in 2012 to 16. 1% in 2015, and was the most important leading cause of in-hospital HIV/AIDS-related death in Guangxi. However, there are no machine learning models for predicting the treatment outcome of patients with talaromycosis. We used computer algorithms to train four different model models to predict the hospitalization outcome of HIV/AIDS patients with T. marneffei infection. Our predictive model showed robust discrimination in the testing dataset, showing an AUC of 0. 90 with 0. 69 sensitivity and 0. 96 specificity. The other three models were ruled out due to poor performance. Septic shock and respiratory failure were the most important predictive features, followed by uric acid, urea, platelets, and AST/ALT ratios. The XGBoost machine learning model is a good predictor in the hospitalization outcome of HIV/AIDS patients with T. marneffei infection. The model may have potential application in mortality prediction and high-risk factor identification in the talaromycosis population.
Human toxocariasis is a parasitic disease that causes severe blindness and developmental delays in children. It has been identified as an under-diagnosed disease of poverty due to its high seropositivity among socioeconomically disadvantaged groups, and it is likely to be neglected in the United States. Toxocara canis and Toxocara cati are ascarid nematodes that infect dogs and cats and can cause environmental contamination if the feces of infected animals contaminate public spaces. The eggs deposited in soil can exhibit cryptobiosis when environmental conditions are not ideal and may survive for many years. Eggs containing fully developed larvae are infectious to humans, whereas Toxocara at earlier stages of development are pre-infectious and cannot lead to toxocariasis. Infection of egg forms in the soil can result in visceral or ocular larva migrans, blindness, subclinical cerebral infection, or covert infection which can diminish neurological cognition or result in developmental delay in children. However, research is still in the nascent stages of understanding the full clinical spectrum of illness caused by T. canis and Toxocara cati. This study aimed to identify the most significant sources of human toxocariasis in New York City, with evidence of substantial levels of contamination in all five boroughs. These findings suggest that feral or untreated cats represent a significant source of environmental contamination. These results indicate that human toxocariasis has emerged as an important health disparity in New York City, with ongoing risk of acquiring Toxocara infection in public spaces, especially in poorer neighborhoods. There is a need for reducing environmental Toxocara contamination. Additional rigorous public health interventions should explore further approaches to interrupt transmission to humans.
Envenoming by scorpions is a public health problem in tropical America. One of the most medically significant species is Tityus trivittatus, which is known to occur from southwest Brazil to central-northern and eastern Argentina. In this study, we studied the lethality, composition, antigenicity, and enzymatic activity of venom from an urban population found further north in urban areas of eastern Paraguay. We showed that the populations are of medical importance as it produces a potently toxic venom with an LD50 around 1. 19 mg/kg. Venom competitive solid-phase enzyme immunoassays were complete when using Brazilian anti-T. serrulatus antivenom but only partial when using Argentinean anti-T. trivittator antivenom. The molecular phylogeny of mitochondrial COI sequences revealed a significant ( 8. 14% ) genetic differentiation between the Argentinean and Paraguayan populations, which appeared to have diverged between the mid Miocene and early Pliocene. Altogether, toxinological and genetic evidence indicate that T. trivitt at least contains unique cryptic species. This suggests that further venom and taxonomic diversity exists in synanthropic southern South American Tityus than previously thought.
Bats are a group of animals that feed on plants and flowers. They have to attract their pollinators in absence of light, so they need to find the flowers that attract them. Some bat species develop specialized floral parts which make the flowers acoustically conspicuous. These parts are usually concave shaped and act like retroreflectors making the flowers acoustically conspicuous. However, it remains unclear whether other bat-pollinated plant species also show acoustic adaptations. In this study, we recorded 32320 flower echoes from 12 different species belonging to 6 different families. We used echo recordings of the flowers and trained a neural network ( CNN ) with echo spectrograms of the flowers. The results showed that bat-pollinated flowers have higher target strength, independent of their size, and differ in their morphology. This suggests that bat-pollinated flowers are easier to classify. The higher classification performance of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphological features. The higher classification accuracy of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphology. The higher classification performance of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphology. The higher classification performance of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphology. The higher classification performance of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphology. The higher classification performance of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphology. The higher classification performance of bat-pollinated flowers can be explained by the lower variance of their morphology.
Schistosomiasis is a parasitic disease caused by the parasitic worm Oncomelania hupensis. It causes severe diarrhea and death in millions of people worldwide, but it can be controlled with treatment using drugs such as mass drug administration. The most effective way to control this illness is to eliminate the intermediate snail host, which is amphibious rather than aquatic. However, the snail species is difficult to trace because it requires particular environmental conditions, such as high moisture microhabitats. In China, all infections are due to Schistosoma japonicum with Oncomelania hupensis as the sole intermediate snail host which is amphibious rather than aquatic. This means that the habitats of the lake/marshland type exist mainly along the Yangtze River, while those of the hilly type are dispersed in the areas south of the Yangtze River. We have developed a novel method to identify potential snail habitats based on precise examinations revealing the true distribution and habitat type. These results provide the first comprehensive risk profile of potential snail habitats based on accurate analysis of the data. The model was used to predict the presence of snails and its location, thereby improving efficiency and accuracy of snail control. The models were also evaluated by machine learning, which allowed us to better understand how the environment affects the likelihood of schistosomiasis infection. The findings will help scientists to develop more efficient strategies for controlling schistosomiasis and improve their ability to treat patients with praziquantel.
Giardia duodenalis is a parasite that causes diarrheal disease in humans and other mammals. The treatment of this infection relies on metronidazole ( MTZ ) and albendazole ( ABZ ), which are the most common drugs used for treating diarrheal diseases. However, resistance to these drugs has been reported in some field isolates with resistant clones. In this study, we investigated how gFlHb regulates ABZ metabolism and its role in ABZ resistance in G. duodenalis trophozoites. We first determined that iron-containing cofactor heme induces higher levels of flavohemoglobin ( gFlHb ) in Giardia trophozoites. These findings suggest that gFlHb promotes ABZ conversion into its sulfoxide ( ABZSO ) and sulfone ( ABZSOO ) forms, despite lacking canonical enzymes involved in these processes. Spectral analyses of recombinant gFlHb in the presence of ABZ, ABZSO and ABZSO showed high affinities for each of these compounds. Further spectroscopic analysis revealed that ABZ is indirectly oxidized to ABZSO by superoxide generated from the NADH oxidase activity of gFlHb. Furthermore, all albendazole-resistant clones transfected to overexpress gFlHb displayed higher susceptibility to the drug than the parent clones. Collectively these results indicate a role for gFlHb in ABZ biotransformation and ABZ resistance in this parasite. Collectively these findings indicate a role for gFlHb in ABZ biotransformation and ABZ resistance in G. duodenalis trophozoites. Interestingly, gFlHb down-regulation acts as a passive pharmacokinetic mechanism of resistance in this parasite. Collectively these findings indicate a role for gFlHb in ABZ biotransformation and ABZ resistance in G. duodenalis trophozoites.
The assimilation of sulfur is a fundamental process across all domains of life, but how cells deal with varying sulfur availability is not well understood. In yeast, the enzyme Met17p acts as a homocysteine synthase and allows cells to substitute for Met17p by reassimilating hydrosulfide ions leaked from met17 cells into O-acetyl-homoserine and forming homocysteine. Our study shows that cells can cooperate to overcome sulfur limitation, indicating that the collective properties of microbial communities facilitate their basic metabolic capacity to overcome sulfur limit. This finding could help scientists understand whether large-scale weather or climate changes are affecting the seasonality of sulfur fixation in yeast. Here, we used biochemical approaches to identify an uncharacterized gene product called Hydrogen Sulfide Utilizing-1 ( HSU1 ). It is a protein that acts as a homocysteine synthase and helps cells to replace Met17p by reassimilating hydrosulfide ions leaked from met17 cells into O-acetyl-homoserine and forming homocysteine. We found that the cell can cooperate to achieve sulfur fixation, indicating that the collective properties of microbial communities facilitate their basic metabolic capacity to overcome sulfur limitation. These findings suggest that the collective properties of microbial communities facilitate their basic metabolic capacity to overcome sulfur limitation. ## Summary for a layman : A key role of sulfur in the digestion of oxygen – the chemical energy needed for the production of hydrogen sulphides – is important for understanding the mechanisms that underlie the formation of sulfur compounds. However, it was unclear how these processes are coordinated. To address this question, Wang et al. studied a new protein called Hydrogen Sulfide Utilizing-1 ( HSU1 ), which is a novel enzyme that acts as a homocysteine synthase. It is a protein that functions as a homocysteine synthase and allows cells to substitute for Met17p by reassimilating hydrosulfide ions leaked from met17 cells into O-acetyl-homoserine and forming homocysteine. The results show that the proteins can be useful for studying the dynamics of sulfur fixation in yeast. This work will also provide insights into how organisms respond to changing conditions.
The follicular epithelium is the body’s barrier to transport nutrients and other substances to cells. In insects, vitellogenesis is regulated by a process called patency. Patency opens in the follicle epithelium, where egg-producing organisms must pass through the follicular epithelium to reach the cell membrane for subsequent Vg receptor-mediated endocytosis. However, the mechanisms underlying patency are poorly understood. Here, Weidman et al. used the migratory locust Locusta migratoria as a model system to study how JH stimulates insect vitellogenesis and eggs production via inducing the opening of patency. By using the migratory locust Locusta migratoria as a model system, we found that JH activated phosphorylation of partitioning defective protein 3 ( Par3 ) via a signaling cascade including GPCR, Cell division cycle 42 ( Cdc42 ) and atypical Protein kinase C ( aPKC ). Par3 phosphorylated resulted in its disassociation from -Catenin, the partner of ZA core component E-Cadherin. Release of Par3 from the -Catenin/E-Cadherin complex caused ZA disassembly at tricellular contacts, consequently leading to patency enlargement. This study provides new insight into how JH stimulates insect vitellogenesis and egg production via inducing the opening of paracellular route for vitellogenin transport crossing the follicular epithelium barrier. Using the migratory locust Locusta migratoria as a model system, we found that JH-regulated remodeling of zonula adherens ( ZA ), the belt-like adherens junction maintaining physical linking between follicle cells, controlled the opening of patency. JH triggered phosphorylation of Partitioning defective protein 3 ( Par3 ) via a signaling cascade including GPCR, Cell division cycle 42 ( Cdc42 ) and atypical Protein kinase C ( aPKC ). Par3 phosphorylation resulted in ZA disassembly at tricellular contact, leading to patency enlargement. This study provides new insights into how JH stimulates insect vitellogenesis and egg production via inducing the opening of paracellular path for Vg transport crossing the follicular epithelium barrier. ## Summary for a layman.
Alcohol-related liver disease ( ALD ) is the third leading preventable cause of death in the world and one of the major chronic liver diseases worldwide. The mortality and morbidity rates from patients with ALD are very high. It accounts for  500, 000 deaths from ALD annually worldwide, representing a huge financial and healthcare burden on society. However, it is difficult to identify patients with early-stage ALD, as these are largely asymptomatic. Consequently, the majority of ALD patients are only diagnosed by the time ALD has reached decompensated cirrhosis, a symptomatic phase marked by the development of complications as bleeding and ascites. The main goal of this study is to discover relevant upstream diagnoses helping to understand the development of ALD and to highlight meaningful downstream diagnostics that represent its progression into liver failure. Here, we use data from the Danish National Patient Registry ( NPR ), a country-wide health database that contains patient information such as hospital encounters, discharge dates and diagnoses. We find that ALD is the most common form of ALD in the registry data and that ALC patients have a strong over-representation of diagnoses associated with liver dysfunction. By contrast, we identify a small number of patients diagnosed with ALF who appear to be much less sick than those with ALD. We perform a matched case–control study using the group of patients with ALD as cases and their matched non-ALD controls as controls. Machine learning models trained and tested on the set of ALD patients achieve a high performance for data classification. When testing the same trained models on the small set of ALF patients, their performance unsurprisingly drops a lot. Our findings underscore the potential of this approach to uncover knowledge in registry data related to ALD. Some of these groups are conditions either caused by alcohol or caused by malnutrition associated with alcohol-overuse. Others are comorbidities either related to trauma and life-style or to complications to cirrhosis, such as oesophageal varices. Our results highlight the potential of this approach to uncover knowledge in registry data related to ALD.
The brain is made up of neurons that are able to connect with other cells. In the process, these neurons can repair damaged nerves and restore connectivity to their own structures. However, the mechanisms under which these connections are repaired are not well understood. To achieve this, neurons often remove dendrite branches during metamorphosis. This means that they have to eliminate dendritic branches in order to make new dendritic trees. Dendrite arborization ( C4da ) neurons are a type of neuron that is capable of regeneration after injury. These neurons are also known to undergo damage-induced regeneration. Here we show that the microRNA miR-87 is required for dendrite regeneration in Drosophila. MiR-87 knockout impairs dendrite regeneration after developmentally programmed pruning, while miR-87 overexpression in C4da leads to precocious initiation of dendrite regeneration. Genetic analyses indicate that the transcriptional repressor Tramtrack69 ( Ttk69 ) is a functional target for miR-87-mediated repression. We further show that miR-87 promotes dendrite regeneration at least in part through suppressing Ttk69 in Drosophila sensory neurons. Our findings suggest that developmental and injury-induced dendrite regeneration share a common intrinsic mechanism to reactivate dendrite growth. These results suggest that developmental and injury-induced dendrite regeneration share a common intrinsic mechanism to reactivate dendrite growth.
The immune system is a complex network of cells that respond to the environment and to threats. Infection with malaria causes a marked increase in the number of V2 T cells, which are thought to be responsible for protecting humans from parasites. However, the ability of these cells to protect against infection has been studied in many different ways. For example, V2 T cells can rapidly activate to produce anti-malarial antibodies, but they also have a distinct role in the host’s defense against infections. This is because V2 T cells are highly sensitive to parasites, and their response to parasites depends on the presence of an antibody. To understand how this effect is achieved, it is important to study how V2 T cells respond to parasites. Here, Weidman et al. investigated whether V2 T cells can respond to P. falciparum-infected red blood cell opsonizing proteins. They found that V2 T cells were more responsive to opsonized parasites than their CD16 counterparts. These findings suggest that V2 T cells may contribute to the immune response to malaria, and that this could help explain why V2 T cells are so resilient against parasites. This suggests that V2 T cells may play a crucial role in the fight against parasites. This is a new role for V2 T cells and for opsonizing antibodies in the immune response. This is a novel role for V2 T cells and for opsonizing antibodies in the immune response, emphasising cooperation between the cellular and humoral arms of the immune system. ##
Proteins are complex structures that contain many different types of molecules. They can be divided into multiple conformations, and each protein has its own structure. The proteins that make up a cell are often made from different parts of the body. Each part is composed of two or more components, and each component must have a specific shape. This means that the proteins that make up a cell are different. For example, a protein called HIV-1 protease is made from a single piece of DNA. It contains a pair of proteins called spin-labels, which are bound to the protein. These probes are then added to the protein to form an ensemble of proteins. When the protein becomes disordered, it will become unstable. In this way, the protein may lose its plasticity. However, it also retains some structural integrity. Therefore, it needs to be described in order to understand how it functions. Here, Wei et al. developed a software program to predict double electron-electron resonance ( DEER ) distance distributions and Paramagnetic Relaxation Enhancement rates from large conformational ensembles. DEER-PREdict uses a technique known as rotamer library approach to describe the paramagnetic probes. DEER-PREdict was designed to operate efficiently on large conformational ensembles, such as those generated by molecular dynamics simulation. The performance and accuracy of DEER-PREdict is demonstrated with experimentally characterized protein systems: HIV-1 Protease, T4 Lysozyme and Acyl-CoA-binding protein. DEER-PREdict is open source, documented and available at GitHub. com/KULL-Centre/DEERpredict and as a Python PyPI package pypi. org/project/DEERPREdict. org/project/DEERPREdict.  2017.
The disease of diarrhea is caused by the bacteria Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli ( ETEC ), which causes severe and life-threatening infections in children under 5 years old. It is also responsible for an estimated 18, 700 deaths in Zambia, which are endemic to low income countries. In this study, Chakraborty et al. evaluated the Rapid LAMP based Diagnostic Test ( RLDT ) for detection of ETEC in stool. This test detects ETEC directly from stool in 1 hour. The results showed that the rapid sensitivity and specificity of the RLDT were 90. 7% and 97. 5% for LT, 85. 2% and 99. 3% for STh and 100% and 99. 7% for STp. The results suggest that RLDT is sufficiently sensitive and specific and easy to implement in resource-limited settings. Being rapid and simple, the RLDT also presents as an attractive tool for point-of-care testing at health facilities and laboratories in the resource-limited setting. The findings suggest that RLDT is sufficient sensitive and specific and easy to implement in the endemic areas. Being rapid and simple, the RLDT also presents as an attractive tool for point-of-care testing at the health facilities and laboratories in the resource-limited settings. The results of this study suggest that RLDT is sufficiently sensitive and specific and easy to implement in the endemic countries. Being rapid and simple, the RLDT also presents as an attractive tool for point-of-care testing at the health facilities and laboratories in the resource-limited settings.
Longitudinal intervention studies with repeated measurements over time are an important type of experimental design in biomedical research. The study is often conducted in the laboratory or at home, and the results can be analysed using multiple variables. However, longitudinal interventions are not always well balanced, and the data may contain many different factors. This means that the analysis of these data is difficult. In this paper we introduce a new methodology, repeated measures ASCA+ ( RM-ASCA+ ), which uses repeated measures linear mixed models to model metabolic changes over time. We show how it can be used to model metabolic changes over time, and compare metabolic changes between groups, in both randomized and non-randomized intervention studies. Tools for visualization and model validation are discussed. This approach can facilitate easier interpretation of data from longitudinal clinical trials with multivariate outcomes. This approach can also help scientists determine whether large-scale weather or climate change are affecting the seasonality of the data. This approach can help researchers identify at-risk populations, plan responses at the present time as well as under changing conditions. This approach can help scientists understand the long-term dynamics of the data, and how they can interpret the findings. It is important to consider the importance of understanding the long-term dynamic of the data, and to use this information to better understand the impact of interventions on patients. Here, Wei et al. describe a method called repeated measures ASCA+, which can be applied to longitudinal intervention studies with unbalanced designs. It is based on combining two types of statistical methods: ANOVA simultaneous component analysis ( ANOVA ) and principal component analysis ( PCA ). These methods combine general linear models with principal components analysis to produce a more robust model. We also discuss tools for both visualisation and modeling model validation. This approach can facilitate easier interpretation of data from longitudinal clinical trials with multivariate outcome data. This approach can facilitate easier interpretation of data from longitudinal clinical trials with multivariate outcomes.
The time evolution of disease states is not always trivial. However, it can be useful to understand the mechanisms of disease development and how they influence the other ones ( disease interactions ). In this paper we use a simple model of molecular reactions as a microscopic model for the time evolution of signs and diseases. We start from some plausible definitions for the healthy state and disease states along with a dynamical model for the emergence of diseases by a reverse simulated annealing algorithm. A disease phenotype is defined with two parameters controlling the rate of mutations in reaction and the rate of accepting mutations that reduce the objective function. This allows us to obtain the accuracy of diagnosis as a function of time by using a probabilistic model of signs and diseases. The trade-off between the diagnostic accuracy ( increasing in time ) and the objective function ( decreasing in time ) can be used to suggest an optimal time for medical intervention. Our model would be useful in particular for a dynamical ( history-based ) diagnostic problem, to estimate the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. This would be useful in particular for a dynamical ( history-based ) diagnostic problem, to estimate the probability of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. Our model would be useful in particular for a dynamical ( history-based ) diagnostic problem, to estimate the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. This would be useful in particular for a dynamical ( history-based ) diagnostic problem, to estimate the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. This paper aims to clarify these concepts within a chemical reaction network as a microscopic model for the time evolution of molecular concentrations ( the system signs ). To this end, we take a large population of reaction networks and follow the stochastic dynamics of the system to see how the development of defects affects the macroscopic states of the sign probability distribution. We start from some plausible definitions for the healthy and disease states along with a dynamical model for the emergence of diseases by a reverse simulated annealing algorithm. The model can provide the time dependence of the sign probabilities given a disease phenotype. This allows us to achieve the accurate diagnosis as a function of time by using a probabilistic model of signs and diseases. The trade-off between the diagnostic accuracy ( increasing in time ) and the objective function ( decreasing in time ) can be used to suggest an optimal time for medical interventions. Our model would be useful in particular for a dynamical ( history-based ) diagnostic problem, to estimate the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. This would be useful in particular for a dynamical ( history-based ) diagnostic problem, to estimate the likelihood of a disease hypothesis given the temporal evolution of the signs. This paper aims to clarify the concept of signs and diseases in a simple model of biochemical reactions.
The transmission of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) is dependent on the amount of infectious particles present in the environment surrounding the susceptible host. In most studies, the total RNA to infectious virus ratio in URT is assumed constant over time. However, the relationship between viral RNA and total RNA has not been explored. Here, we developed a mathematical model that allows us to study how the dynamics of viral RNA and viral titers change during infection. We found that viral RNA levels decrease late in infection, but high viral RNA levels later in the infection are a poor indicator of transmission. This information can help scientists design interventions to minimize infections during a certain time of year. These findings can be used to guide interventions to reduce the risk of disease. The results of this work can also help researchers understand how viruses spread and develop new vaccines. The results of these experiments will help scientists better identify potential targets for future research. The results of this paper will help scientists to make more informed decisions about how to treat diseases. The results of this work will help scientists to improve their understanding of the mechanisms that control the development of drugs and treatments. The results of this work will help scientists to better plan interventions to prevent or cure diseases. The results of this work will help scientists to better understand how viruses spread and grow.
The number of species, objects, or genes shared between two groups is known as the overlap between two communities. However, when only partial samples are available, quantifying the overlap between two communities becomes an estimation problem. To calculate normalized measures of -diversity, such as the Jaccard and Sorenson-Dice indices, one must also estimate the total sizes of the communities being compared. In this paper, we address this issue by using posterior samples from each community to refine estimates of the size of each community. We show that this produces systematically better estimates than previously thought. We further demonstrate how to use species, item, or gene count data to refine estimates of community size in a Bayesian joint model of community size and overlap. This work will help scientists understand how large scale weather events can affect the timing of maximum and minimum maximum and minimum maximum and minimum maximum and minimum maximum and minimum maximum and minimum maximum and minimum maximum and minimum maximum and minimum maximum and minimum maximum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and minimum and
The disease Chagas Disease ( CD ) is caused by the protozoan Trypanosoma cruzi. It has two forms: acute and chronic. In its chronic phase, around 60% to 70% of patients do not present any apparent symptoms; 30% develop cardiomyopathies with a clinical variety, including arrhythmias, aneurysms, dilated cardiomyopathy, and sudden death. However, it remains unclear how these tests are used. This study was conducted in Latin America, where there are about 100 million people at risk of being infected with T. cruzi. There are currently no reference standards for testing the diagnosis of CD. Therefore, the use of both methods is essential. To assess the validity of these assays, researchers need to examine the data available. These studies were published between 2010 and 2020 on PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, and LILACS. We extracted the data and assessed the risk of bias and applicability of the studies using the QUADAS-2 tool. The bivariate random effects model was also used to estimate the overall sensitivity and specificity of the studies. Meta-regressions were made using subgroup analysis. Deeks’ test showed asymmetry on the ELISA tests. The ELISA tests had a sensitivity of 99% ( 95% CI: 98–99 ) and a specificity of 98% ( 95% CI: 97–99 ). The Rapid Diagnostic Tests ( RDT ) had values of 95% ( 95% CI: 94–97 ) and 97% ( 97% CI: 96–98 ). The results indicate that ELISA and RDT tests have high validity for diagnosing chronic Chagas Disease. The authors also found that the comparison of the findings of this study provides valuable information for future research.
The neurotransmitter dopamine ( DA ) is an important drug that helps people to learn and motivate themselves. It has been proposed that dopaminergic neurons are responsible for the development of learning and motivation, but it remains unclear how these two processes interact. In humans, dopaminergic neurons have different levels of DA, which can be measured by measuring the concentrations of DA in their brains. However, the exact nature of this difference is not fully understood. Here we present a new computational model that incorporates the geometry of synaptic cleft, which allows us to compare the results of our simulation with empirical data. We show that the model reflects a very localized signal occurring on the synaptic level, i. e. synaptic dopamine release is negligibly recognized by neighboring synapses. Furthermore, we find that the model reflects a very localized signal occurring on the synakines. This may explain differences in experimental observations. From a clinical perspective, differences in striatal dopaminergic signaling contribute to differential learning and reward processing, with relevant implications for addictive- and compulsive-like behavior. Specifically, dopaminergic tone is assumed to impact on phasic dopamine and hence on the integration of reward-related signals. However, in humans DA tone is classically assessed using PET, which is an indirect measure of endogenous DA availability and suffers from temporal and spatial resolution issues. We discuss how this can lead to discrepancies with observations from other methods such as microdialysis. We also test a hypothesis postulated by Laruelle that bridges apparent discrepancies between observations using PET versus microdialysis. This and similar discrepancies across studies may be traced back to resolution issues of different empirical methods.
The salivary glands of ticks are a key source of blood for the spread of pathogens. Ticks can be attached to the host and feed on blood from their bites, but they also may remain attached to the host for long periods. In this study, we first investigated how the degeneration of tick salivary glands is related to autophagy and apoptosis in the salivary glands of Rhipicephalus haemaphysaloides. We found that the concentration-dependent ecdysone-induced programmed cell death was associated with the degradation of the salivary glands. Treatment with 20-hydroxyecdysone led to programmed cell death in the salivary glands of unfed ticks. However, the calcium levels were upregulated in the salivary glands. This resulted in the formation of apoptotic bodies. These results demonstrate that high concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulating the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. RNA interference ( RNAi ) of RhATG5 in vitro inhibited both autophagy and apoptosis of the tick salivary glands. High concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulated the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. These findings demonstrated that high concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulated the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. RNA interference ( RNAi ) of RhATG5 in vivo significantly inhibited the normal feeding process. These data demonstrate that high concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of Calcium and stimulated the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. Using RNA interference ( RNAi ) of RhATG5 in vivo, we showed that high concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulated the transition from autophagy to apoptosis. These results demonstrate that high concentrations of 20E led to the cleavage of RhATG5 by increasing the concentration of calcium and stimulated the transition from autophagy to apoptosis.
Yellow fever ( YF ) is a disease caused by the yellow fever virus ( YFV ), which spreads from Africa to South America. It has been reported that YF transmission occurs in two cycles: the sylvatic and urban cycle. In the latter, transmission is maintained by mosquito species of the Haemogogus and Sabethes genera between NHPs, with humans considered incidental hosts. However, the sylvatic cycle has historically been limited to Amazonian regions. The sylvatic cycle has accounted for almost all cases since 1942, and has traditionally been restricted to Amazonian areas. However, over the past 20 years the area where YF is endemic in NHPs has seen rapid geographic expansion. This has resulted in 5 reassessments of the zone of YF endemicity since 2000, with the latest update in 2018 including the entire country. Although there is no evidence of urban transmission in these outbreaks, confirmed human and NHP cases in the vicinity of Brazil’s largest cities–areas with high Aedes aegypti density–is a cause for concern. We investigated the drivers of YF transmission both intra and interannually, using temporally varying covariates related to climate, land-cover, vegetation and human and NHP demographics. These models were fitted to the number of months reporting YF per year and by each month over the time-period. The best performing models, as measured by the Akaike Information Criterion ( AIC ), were combined to create ensemble models to describe interannual and seasonal variation in YF. The model reproduced the spatiotemporal heterogeneities in YF transmission, with coefficient of determination values of 0. 43 ( 95% CI 0. 41–0. 45 ) for the interannual model and 0. 66 ( 95% CI 0. 64–0. 67 ) for the seasonal model. Our findings may help understand the recent expansions of the YF endemic zone, as well as to the highly seasonal nature of YF.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) is a severe mental illness that affects individuals with obsessive-compulsive disorders ( OCDs ). The disease causes excessive and life-disrupting intrusive thoughts ( obsessions ) or irresistible behavioral urges ( compulsions ), which are thought to be linked to compulsivity. Compulsive behaviors are often associated with the repetition of actions that do not produce valuable outcomes. In OCD patients, they are aware that their compulsive behavior is excessive and ineffective, but they are unable to inhibit these instrumental behaviors. Pavlovian cues can influence instrumental behavior through Pavlovian-instrumental transfer ( PIT ). A classic paradigm that has been used to study the effect of Pavlovian cues on instrumental behavior in OCD patients and healthy controls was the Pavlovian Instrumental Transfer test. This task included instrumental training, Pavlovian training for positive, negative and neutral cues, and a PIT phase in which participants performed the instrumental task in the presence of the Pavlovian cues. Modified Rescorla-Wagner models were fitted to trial-by-trial data of participants to estimate underlying computational mechanism and quantify individual differences during training and transfer stages. Behavioral and computational results indicated a weaker Pavlovian influence on instrumental behavior in OCD patients than in HC, especially for negative Pavlovian cues. Our findings contrast with increased PIT effects reported for another set of disorders characterized by compulsivity, substance use disorders, in which PIT is enhanced. A possible reason for the reduced PIT in OCD may be impairment in using the contextual information provided by the cues to appropriately adjust behavior, particularly when inhibiting responding when a negative cue is present. This study provides deeper insight into our understanding of OCD from the perspective of Pavlovian influences on instrumental behavior and may have implications for OCD treatment modalities focused on reducing compulsive behaviors.
The Apicomplexa phylum comprises thousands of distinct intracellular parasite species, including coccidians, haemosporidians, and cryptosporidia. These parasites are complex and divergent life cycles occupying a variety of host niches. In order to fully exploit these critical pathways, it is important to understand such differences. Pan is the precursor for the biosynthesis of an essential cofactor CoA. Most bacteria, plants and fungi can synthesize it de novo while animals need to acquire this vitamin from their diet. Pantothenate ( Pan, Vitamin B5 ) is the precursor for the synthesis of an essential cofactor CoA. Most bacteria, plants and fungi can synthesize it de novo while animals need to acquire this vitamin from their diet. Toxoplasma falciparum tachyzoites contain KPHMT and KPR as single genes instead. However, the localization of PBAL in the nucleus is surprising but is confirmed by a proteome-wide fractionation study performed via CRISPR-Cas9 editing in T. gondii. The presence of a highly divergent pathway, active in a different life cycle stage of the parasite where -alanine supply is limited, cannot be ruled out. A complementary strategy to the homology search for the identification of the Pan transporter could take advantage of the currently available genome-wide datasets, the LOPIT dataset for T. gondii tachyzoites and the molecular basis for Toxoplasma tissue preference for cyst formation, clearly supporting the utilization of Pan synthesis in bradyzoites. Moreover, the absence of a highly divergent pathway, active in a different life cycle stage of the parasite, is likely to explain the necessity for Pan synthesis in bradyzoites. Interestingly, the presence of a single transporter for ketopantoatin ( Pan, vitamin B5 ), a protein that is required for pan synthesis in rodent malaria parasites, is predicted to have a reduced fitness. Nevertheless, the dispensability of Pan synthesis in T. gondii tachyzoites is likely to be a consequence of off-target effects. Taking a similar approach, a recent review by Martin proposed novel, high divergent candidate transporters for Pan in P. falciparum, and the potential to develop drug targets. This would be limited to candidates with the following: ( i ) plasma membrane predicted localization; ( ii ) branched-chain amino acid, -alanine synthesis pathway; ( ii ) phosphorylation of Pan, -alanine ligation; ( ii ) a molecule of carboxylate containing dipeptides carnosine and anserine – a metabolite of pyrazinamide, a major facilitator superfamily transporter, a lipid transporter, and a phosphate-binding enzyme, a kinase, and a putative transporter, PfPAT, and a putative transporter, PfPAT, and a putative transporter, PfPAT, and a putative transporter, PfPAT, and a peptide-containing triazole ligase, a molecule that is conserved in T. gondii tachyzoites, and a bacterial product, a molecule that is able to produce Pan synthesis in bradyzoites, and ( iii ) a potent antiparasitic drug target, a potential drug target based on the bactericidal effect of these 2 enzymes, and the potential to develop Plasmodium-specific inhibitors, which are ideally targeted for Pan synthesis in T. gondii tachyzoites, and a pharmacologically characterized, highly diversified, apicomplexan, and a phenotype of a bacterial pathogen, a cytosolic or nuclear component, a soluble form of a fatty acid,
Membrane proteins are a large subgroup of protein structures that are responsible for transporting substances across the cell membrane. The structure and function of these proteins has been extensively studied for decades, but the relationship between the sequence, structure, and function of proteins has not been fully understood. To characterize the structural features of membrane proteins, researchers defined some essential properties, such as secondary structure ( SS ) and solvent accessibility ( SA ). However, the underlying property is often neglected in the analysis and prediction of the structure and function of membrane proteins. Here, we propose a new characteristic quantity, the membrane contact probability ( MCP ), to describe the likelihood of direct contact between the amino acids of a given sequence being in direct contact with the hydrophobic core of lipid bilayers rather than being embedded in the protein interior. We show that MCP can be predicted for any given sequence with a machine learning-based method by using a training dataset extracted from MemProtMD, a database generated from molecular dynamics simulations for the membrane proteins with a known structure. As the first of many potential applications, we demonstrate that MCP can be used to systematically improve the predictions of the protein contact maps and structures. As the first of many potential applications, we demonstrate that MCP can be used to systematically improve the prediction accuracy of the protein contact map and structure predictions of ( membrane ) proteins.
The COVID-19 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) pandemic is mitigated by several non-pharmaceutical interventions, but it is difficult to predict which of these are the most effective for a given population. We developed an agent-based model that allows us to test control measures in multiple infection waves caused by the spread of a new virus variant in a city-sized societal environment using a unified framework fitted to realistic data. We show that vaccination strategies prioritising occupational risk groups minimise the number of infections but allow higher mortality while prioritising vulnerable groups minimizes mortality and implies an increased infection rate. We also found that intensive vaccine along with non-pharmacological interventions can substantially suppress the spread of the virus, while low levels of vaccination, premature reopening may easily revert the epidemic to an uncontrolled state. Our analysis highlights that while vaccination protects the elderly from COVID-19, a large percentage of children will contract the virus, and we also show the benefits and limitations of various quarantine and testing scenarios. The unique spatial resolution of PanSim allows the design and testing of complex, specific targeted intervention with a large number of agents under dynamically changing conditions. This means that the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents can be carried out in a city-sized societal environment. This means that the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents can be carried out in a city-sized societal environment. This means that the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents can be performed in a city-sized societal environment. This means that the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents can be carried out in a city-sized societal environment. This means that the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents can be carried out in a city-sized societal environment. This means that the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents can be carried out in a city-sized societal environment. This means that the design and testing of complex, specifically targeted interventions with a large number of agents can be carried out in a city-sized societal environment.
The small bowel is the largest organ in our body and is one of the most common causes of malnutrition. It is also responsible for over 40% of child deaths worldwide, and it has been identified as an underdiagnosed disease among children in low-income countries. A major limitation to understanding the etiology of environmental enteropathy ( EED ) remains the lack of a comprehensive histologic framework for characterising the small bowel lesions. We hypothesized that a comprehensive histological framework would be useful in future clinical studies of this disorder. Duodenal endoscopic biopsies from two cohorts where EED is prevalent ( Pakistan, Zambia ) and North American children with and without gluten sensitive enteropathy ( GSE ) were processed for routine hematoxylin & eosin staining, and scanned to produce whole slide images ( WSIs ) which we shared between study pathologists via a secure web browser-based platform. A semi-quantitative scoring index composed of 11 parameters encompassing tissue injury and response patterns commonly observed in routine clinical practice was constructed by three gastrointestinal pathologists, with input from EED experts. The pathologist read the WSIs using the EED histology index, and inter-observer reliability was assessed. Eight of the 11 histologic scoring parameters showed useful degrees of variation. The overall concordance across all parameters was 96% weighted agreement, kappa 0. 70, and Gwet’s AC 0. 93. Zambian tissues shared some histologic features with GSE, but most features were distinct, particularly abundance of intraepithelial lymphocytes in the Pakistani cohort, and marked villous destruction and loss of secretory cell lineages in the Zambian cohort. We propose the first EED histology index for interpreting duodenal biopsies. This index should be useful in future clinical and translational studies of this widespread, poorly understood, and highly consequential disorder, which might be caused by multiple contributing processes, in different regions of the world.
The game theory of social interactions is based on the assumption that players act either strictly sequentially or strictly simultaneously without knowing each other’s current choices. To better predict and explain the outcomes of interactions between agents, we introduce a new game-theoretic setting called transparent games. In contrast to the classical simultaneous and sequential settings, transparent games allow players to observe their partners’ actions and adjust their actions accordingly. By means of evolutionary simulations, we show that even a small probability of seeing the partner’s choice before one’s own decision substantially changes the evolutionary successful strategies in an iterated coordination game, but reduces cooperation in a more competitive iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma. Our results have implications for studies of human and animal social behaviour, especially for the analysis of dyadic and group interactions. We also find that transparency enhances cooperation in both “Win–stay, lose–shift” and “Tit-for-tat” strategies. In both games, “Win–stay, lose–shift” and “Leader-Follower” strategy emerges for high transparency. Our findings have implications for studies of human and animal social behaviour, particularly for the analysis of dyadic and group interactions. Our results have implications for studies of human and animal social behaviour, especially for the analysis of dyadic and group interactions.
Cells that are unable to survive the cell cycle can escape by activating a telomere maintenance mechanism called alternative lengthening of telomeres ( ALT ). However, 15% of cancers do not express telomerase, but instead maintain their telomeres via the Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres ( ALT ) pathway. In this study, we have investigated how loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis causes an ALT-like process in human fibroblasts and epithelial cells. The absence of ATRX, coupled with telomere dysfunction during crisis, enabled the successful escape from crisis in fibroblasts, of mesenchymal origin. This was due to the presence of C-circles, which were observed irrespective of whether they were elongated. These events were transient and the telomeres ultimately continued to erode such that the cells either died or the escape from crisis was associated with ALT. We also show that the loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis induces the ALT pathway in fibroblasts and enables a transient activation of ALT in epithelial cells. Furthermore, loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis in HCT116 epithelial cancer cells led to the initiation of an ALT-like pathway. In both cases, telomere sequencing revealed that all alleles, irrespective of whether they were elongated, were enriched in variant repeat types, that appeared to be cell-line specific. Thus, our data show that the loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis induces the ALT pathway in fibroblasts and enables a transient activation of ALT in epithelial cells. Moreover, loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis leads to the initiation of an ALT-like pathway in epithelial cells. Interestingly, the loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis caused the ALT pathway to be activated in fibroblasts. This suggests that the loss of ATRX combined with telomere dysfunction during crisis induces the ALT pathway in fibroblasts and enables a transient activation of ALT in epithelial cells. ##
Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that lives in the bloodstream and can invade host cells. Its secretory organelles are called rhoptries and micronemes, which release their contents upon contact with the cell surface. The transport of these proteins is crucial for its survival and is also important for the formation of an adhesive membrane structure called the moving junction. However, it has been unclear how this process is controlled by Rab11A, a small GTPase that regulates exocytosis. Here, we investigated the role of Rab11A in T. gondii vesicles, which are released during intracellular replication. We found that Rab11A-defective parasites were not able to complete cytokinesis and showed severe defects in extracellular motility and adhesion to host cells. In addition, we observed a polarized accumulation of Rab11A-positive vesicles and dense granules at the apical pole of extracellular motile and invading parasites. These findings suggest that Rab11A-dependent delivery of cargo regulates early secretory events during parasite entry into host cells. This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms regulating excitatory processes during parasite entry into host cells. Moreover, we show that Rab11A-defective parasites have severe morphological defects. Furthermore, we find that Rab11A-negative parasites also exhibit severe morphological defect. Overall, our results provide evidence that Rab11A regulates transmembrane protein trafficking and localization during parasite replication. This suggests that Rab11A is essential for the efficient transport of cargo and promotes the establishment of a tight parasite-host cell adhesive membrane structure. Interestingly, the MIC2 secretion was altered in Rab11A-defective parasites. This finding could help scientists understand how the pathogenicity of T. gondii may be affected by changes in environmental conditions.
The brain is a complex network of neurons that control how the body perceives and senses information. In order to understand how neurons respond to sensory stimuli, scientists need to know how the activity of one neuron can be controlled. One way to do this is by studying how a single neuron in the rat barrel cortex reacts to a stimulus. If a single neuron is stimulated, it can trigger a behavioral response. However, the probability of a behavioral response does not depend on the duration or intensity of a constant stimulation. This means that the response probabilities are less likely to change when an irregular signal is used. Here, we study a large network of integrate-and-fire neurons with several salient features of neuronal populations in the rat barrel cortex. We show that the response probabilities are significantly increased when an irregular signal is used. These results are consistent with experimental data obtained for the stimulation of a regularly-spiking excitatory cell. A circuit that approximates a differentiator can detect the single-cell stimulation with a reliability that barely depends on the length or intensity of the stimulus, but that increases when an irregular signal is used. This finding is in accordance with the experiments obtained for the stimulation of a regular-spiking excitatory cell. ## Summary for a layman : The simplest explanation for the experiment is that the cellular adaptation mechanisms are present in the dynamics of both neurons and synapses. However, the model also includes some important biological properties of the rat barrel cortex. For example, the simulated responses to the stimulation of a single neuron are similar to those observed in the thalamus. Moreover, the models show that the differences between these two types of cells are due to the fact that they have been studied in detail. Hence, the findings are useful for understanding how neurons respond to a given stimulus.
The human body is constantly exposed to a vast array of DNA damaging agents. In the course of an individual’s life, cells may receive 70, 000 DNA lesions per day. Erroneous repair or lack of repair of these lesions would lead to a variety of genome changes including somatic single base substitutions, insertions and deletions, rearrangements and copy number changes. However, the range of mutation burden in skin cells has not been accurately assessed because the low numbers of mutations from current sequencing methodologies preclude the distinction between sequencing errors and true somatic genome changes. Here, we sequenced genomes of single cell-derived clonal lineages obtained from primary skin cells of healthy individuals across a wide range of age groups. We show that UV-induced base substitutions, insertions and deletions are prominent even in sun-shielded skin. In addition, we detect accumulation of mutations due to spontaneous deamination of methylated cytosines as well as insertions and deletions characteristic of DNA replication errors in these cells. The endogenously induced somatic mutations and indels also demonstrate a linear increase with age, while UV-induced mutation load is age-independent. Finally, we show that DNA replication stalling at common fragile sites are potent sources of gross chromosomal rearrangement in human cells. Thus, somatic mutations in skin of healthy individuals reflect the interplay of environmental and endogenous factors in facilitating genome instability and carcinogenesis.
Clonorchiasis is a tropical disease caused by the liver fluke Clonorchis sinensis. It causes more than 5500 deaths each year in Vietnam, and it has been estimated that over 35 million people are at risk for the infection. The global number of people currently at risk for C. sinensis is estimated at 600 million. In Vietnam, C. sinensis is present in the north, while Opisthorchis viverrini, the Southeast Asian liver fluke is prevalent in the south and central of the country. Recent ( i. e. last year ) consumption of raw fish ( OR 8. 00, 95% CI 4. 78–13. 36 ), low education level ( OR 5. 57; 95% CI 2. 37–13. 07 ), lack of treatment ( OR 1. 82, 95% CI 1. 15–2. 89 ), and the presence of an unhygienic toilet ( OR 2. 74, 95% CI 1. 53–4 92 ) were significantly associated with C. sinensis infection. This study aimed to identify risk factors for C. sinensis infection and associated risk factors in rural communities in northern Vietnam. A cross-sectional survey was conducted in four communes in Yen Bai and Thanh Hoa provinces where clonorchiasis is known to be present and raw fish consumption is common. Stool samples were collected from 841 participants over 6 years old for coprological examination, and a questionnaire measured knowledge, attitudes, and practices with regard to clonorchiasis. Results showed that the prevalence of C. sinensis infection was 40. 4%, with commune prevalences ranging between 26. 5% and 53. 3%. Males were significantly more likely to be infected with C. sinensis. Previous ( i. e. last year ) consumption of raw fish ( OR 8. 00, 95% CI 4. 78–13. 36 ), low education level ( OR 5. 57; 95% CI 2. 37–13. 07 ), low education level ( OR 5. 57; 95% CI 1. 25–33. 37 ), and the presence of an unhygienic toilet ( OR 2. 74, 95% CI 1. 15–2. 92 ) were significantly associated with C. sinensis infection. Thus, control measures including mass drug administration for those communes should be applied to reduce the prevalence. Moreover, specific health education activities should be developed for risk groups in C. sinensis endemic areas. Moreover, specific health education activities should be developed for risk groups in C. sinensis endemic areas. Moreover, specific health education activities should be developed for risk groups in C. sinensis endemic areas. Moreover, specific health education activities should be developed for risk groups in C. sinensis endemic areas.
Skin problems are a major health problem in many developing countries. In 2013, the estimated disability-adjusted life years for skin problems was 1. 79% of the total global burden of disease, including 0. 15% for fungal skin diseases and 0. 07% for tinea. The prevalence among school-aged children in southern Ethiopia is about 25%. Scabies, tungiasis, and tinea infections are common causes of sickness in poor communities. However, the prevalence of these three diseases has been reported in the national or global studies because of their low mortality rates. This study aimed to assess the occurrence and risk factors of three parasitic skin diseases ( scabies, tungiasis, and tinea ) and their risk factors among rural schoolchildren in southern Ethiopia using both a frequentist and Bayesian approach. We assessed 864 schoolchildren aged 7–14 years from the Wonago district in southern Ethiopia. We detected potential risk factors for scabies, tungiasis, and tinea infections and recorded their hygienic practices and socio-demographic information. The frequentist model revealed a clustering effect of 8. 8% at the classroom level and an insignificant effect at the school level. The Bayesian model revealed a clustering effect of 16% at the classroom level and 5. 3% at the school level. Almost three-fourths of the sample had at least one type of skin problem, and boys were at higher overall risk than girls. Washing legs and feet with soap daily was identified as a protective factor for each of the three skin diseases. The findings suggest the need to improve children’s personal hygiene via health education by schoolteachers and health workers. The results suggest the need to improve children’s personal hygiene via health education by schoolteachers and health workers. The findings suggest the need to improve children’s personal hygiene via health education by schoolteachers and health workers.
Mycobacterial infections are a major cause of cancer and the most common form of infectious disease in humans. The bacteria that causes mycobacterial infection are known as pathogens, but they can also be found in other animals. Infection with pathogenic bacteria is often caused by an immune response that is not fully understood. This means that the host immune system is constantly monitoring the bacteria’s activity and determining how to respond to them. To investigate this, researchers have developed a model of mycobacterial infection in which zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) are used to study the effects of mycobacterial infection on their ability to survive and thrive. Zebrafish embryos are equipped with fluorescent transgenic reporter lines and are capable of carrying out experiments. However, the ability to use these transgenic lines to replicate the microRNA-like protein miR-206 ( miR-206-3p ) is still unknown. Here, we show that miR-206 is upregulated following infection by pathogenic M. marinum, and that it suppresses Cxcl12/Cxcr4b signalling. We then demonstrate that miR-206 knockdown of mice induces enhanced neutrophil recruitment to sites of infection. These findings highlight the importance of understanding the role of miR-206 in host responses to mycobacterial infection. MiR-206 has been previously shown to be differentially expressed in THP-1 monocyte-like cells, suggesting that miR-206 may play a key role in the regulation of proinflammatory cytokine responses. The results suggest that miR-206 is important for the development of new therapeutic strategies, including vaccines against mycobacterial infections. Using zebrafish embryos, we show that miR-206 is upregulated after infection by pathogenic M. marinum, and that it inhibits the expression of cxcl12/Cxcr4b signalling. This suggests that miR-206 could help scientists understand the mechanisms of mycobacterial infection. Moreover, the results suggest that miR-206 is able to modulate host gene expression and prevent protective neutrophil recruitment to site of infection. Moreover, the results suggest that miR-206 is a novel biomarker for the treatment of chronic infections.
The cellular dynamics of living cells are complex and dynamic. In the human body, the cell cycle is controlled by the interactions between different parts of the organism. This process can be explained by the interaction between two or more components of the system. For example, in mammals, the cell cycle is coordinated with other cells, which can occur simultaneously. However, it is not clear how this coordination is achieved. To understand how the cell cycle is organized, we need to know how the cell cycle is organised. We have been using live imaging and tracking data for several years to study the behavior of the mouse skin stem cells. Here, we show that the GNN model can predict the fates of the mice’s skin stem cells. It has been shown that the GNN model can also learn the rules of cell division, which can help us to better understand the mechanisms of multi-component dynamics. We then apply the GNN model to the new datasets from the mouse epidermis, where the same pattern of activity is observed in both tissues. We find that the GNN model can be applied to many different tissue types, including the hind paw epidermis. These results suggest that the GNN model can be used to predict the future behaviour of cells in different tissues. The key in this procedure will be to design a framework that allows the machine to extract the rules learned by the GNN model. The input to this machine can include high-content intracellular features such as cell shapes and gene expression, as well as the interaction between cells. The key in this procedure will be to design a flexible framework that can be applied to novel data, and then challenge the model to extract the rules that have been learned by the machine. This method will be in contrast to hypothesis-based approaches where certain coordination rules cannot be inferred by design. To this end, we may train a model based on machine learning to predict the future behavior of cells from past data, and later challenge the model to extract the rules that have been learned by the machine. ## Summary for a layman.
The initiation and progression of cancer is a complex process that requires the regulation of genes and proteins. In many cases, abnormal microRNAs ( miRNAs ) are found in cells that have been damaged by mutations. However, they can be used as drug targets for cancer treatment. Many studies have shown that abnormal microRNAs play important roles in the development and progression of cancer. This has led to the discovery of several molecular mechanisms that regulate the expression of genes and molecules. Here, we present a method for discovering miRNA-gene modules in multiple cancer types. We use this technique to identify tumor-specific and shared miRNA-gene module with biological significance. Our results show that TSCCA can overcome the drawbacks of existing methods and capture both the cancer-shared and specific miRNA-gene co-expressed modules with better physiological interpretations. These modules can advance our understanding of miRNA regulatory mechanisms of cancer and provide insights into miRNA-based treatments for cancer. These modules can advance our understanding of miRNA regulatory mechanisms of cancer and provide insight into miRNA-based therapies for cancer. ## Summary for a layman : MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNAs with about 20 bases, which regulate gene expression during post-transcriptional processes. They are potential candidates for prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets in cancer. However, the strength of miRNA-gene relationship in identified modules by it is still unclear and the algorithm therein has a high computational complexity. So, we propose a new approach to explore the complex miRNA-gene patterns by integrating multi-omics data from multiple cancers. Using a set of simulated data and matched miRNA/gene expression data across 33 cancer types, we uncover some dysfunctional miRNA-gene modules with important biological functions and statistical significance. These modules can advance our understanding of miRNA regulatory mechanisms of cancer and provide insights into miRNA-based treatments for cancer.
The brain is a complex network of neurons that connects the nervous system and other parts of the body. It contains many different pathways and processes, including synaptic activity, memory, learning and memories. In order to learn, we need to know how the brain responds to stimuli. We have studied how long-term changes in synaptic function are driven by short- and long-term plasticity. However, how these interactions shape synaptic dynamics remains poorly understood. To investigate this question, we used mathematical simulations and computational modeling techniques to study the interaction between two types of neuron. These models were fitted with data from visual- and somatosensory cortex. We found that short- and long-term plasticity is tuned together to adapt to area-specific firing rates. This suggests that short- and long-term plasticity is tuned together to adapt to areas-specific activity statistics such as firing rate. Our findings suggest that short- and long-term plasticity are together tuned to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics such as firing rates. We also find that short- and long-term plasticity is tuned together to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics such as firing rates. Our results suggest that short- and long-term plasticity are together tuned to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics such as firing rates. Interestingly, the impact of spike-timing and firing rate changes on plasticity occurs in the prevalent firing rate range, which is different in both cortical regions considered here. Our findings suggest that short- and long-term plasticity are together tuned to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics such as firing rates. Moreover, the effect of spike-timing and firing rate changes on plasticity occurs in the predominant firing rate range, which is different in both cortical areas considered here. Our finding suggests that short- and long-term plasticity are together tuned to adapt plasticity to area-specific activity statistics such as firing rates.
The pteropid bat is the natural reservoir host for many viruses, including Hendra virus ( HeV ) and Nipah virus ( NiV ). Infection with HeV has been reported to cause severe clinical disease in humans and other susceptible hosts. However, it remains unclear how the immune response of the pteropid bats and ferrets responds to infection. Here, we examined the viral replication patterns of infected Australian black flying foxes and ferrets at 12, 36 and 60 hours post exposure ( hpe ). Viral antigen was detected at 60 hpe in bats and was restricted to the lungs whereas in ferrets there was evidence of widespread viral RNA and antigen. The mRNA expression of IFNs revealed antagonism of type I and III IFNs and increased expression of CXCL10 in bat lung and spleen following infection. Liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) on lung tissue from bats and ferrets was performed at 0 and 60 hpe to obtain a global overview of viral and host protein expression. Gene Ontology analysis revealed six pathways involved in cell mediated immunity were more likely to be upregulated in bat lung compared to ferrets. This study contributes important comparative data on differences in the dissemination of HeV and the first to provide comparative data on the activation of immune pathways in bats and ferrets in vivo following infection. This study provides important comparative data on differences in the spread of HeV and the first to provide comparative data on the activation of immune pathways in bats and ferrets in vivo. This study contributes important comparative data on the ability of bats to control viral infection and the first to provide comparative data on the activation of immune pathways in bats and ferrets in vivo following infection.
Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) have identified thousands of genetic risk factors and generated insights into disease etiologies and potential treatments. However, the presence of heterogeneity in many phenotypes is frequently unknown. We present CLiP, a method to detect heterogeneity in single GWAS cohorts. The methodology calculates a weighted sum of correlations between SNPs contributing to a PRS on the case/control liability scale. We demonstrate mathematically and through simulation that among i. i. homogeneous cases generated by a liability threshold model, significant anti-correlations are expected between otherwise independent predictors due to ascertainment on the hidden liability score. In the absence of heterogeneity from distinct etiologys, confounding by covariates, or mislabeling, these correlation patterns are altered predictably. We further extend our methods to two additional associations study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in applications such as transcriptome-wide association, and CLiP-Y for quantitative phenotypes. We observe significant heterogeneity in mega-analysis of the combined PGC data, as well as in individual cohorts meta-analyzed using Fisher’s method. Scores were not significantly reduced when partitioning by known subclusters ( “Depression” and “Worry” ). We also apply CLiP to schizophrenia cohorts totaling > 50, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We observed significant heterogeneity in mega-analysis of the combined PGC data, as well as in individual cohorts meta-analyzed using Fisher’s method. We further extend CLiP to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in schizophrenia and CLiP-Y for quantitative phenotypes. We observe significant heterogeneity in schizophrenia in over 10, 000 patients from the UK Biobank. We observe significant heterogeneity in schizophrenia in over 10, 000 people from the UK Biobank. We further extend CLiP to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in transcriptionome-wide association, and CLiP-Y for quantitative phenotypes, where there is no clear distinction between cases and controls. We further extend CLiP to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for qualitative predictors in neuroticism in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We observe significant heterogeneity in schizophrenia in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We observe significant heterogeneity in schizophrenia in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We further extend CLiP to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in transcriptome-wide association, where there is no clear differentiation between cases and controls. We further extend CLiP to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in schizophrenia and CLiP-Y for quantitative phenotypes, where there is no clear difference between cases and controls. We demonstrate significant heterogeneity in schizophrenia in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We demonstrate significant heterogeneity in schizophrenia in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We further extend CLiP to two additional association study designs: CLiP-X for quantitative predictors in transcriptome-wide association, where there is no clear distinction between cases and controls. We demonstrate significant heterogeneity in schizophrenia in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We demonstrate CLiP-Y for quantitative predictors in schizophrenia in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We demonstrate significant heterogeneity in schizophrenia in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We demonstrate CLiP-Y for quantitative predictors in neuroticism in over 10, 000 individuals from the UK Biobank. We demonstrate CLiP-X for statistical analysis of polygenic risk scores in schizophrenia.
In the current practice, researchers have to recognize the cytopathic effects ( CPE ) induced by influenza virus infection and use virus-specific monoclonal antibody to confirm the presence of virus. However, it is difficult to identify the cytopathic effect if the amounts of viruses in the inoculated specimens are insufficient or due to some virus strain-specific effects. Therefore, a better and more objective way to identify cytopathic effects is required. Here, we developed a deep CNN model to detect cytopathic effects induced by influenza virus infection of a routinely used cell line, Madin-Darby canine kidney cells. The models were trained on images from different time points and viral titers. We tested the performance of our model by using additional 1190 photos from a new experiment. The recognition rates at 16 hour ( hr ), 28 hr, and 40 hr post virus infection were 71. 80%, 98. 25%, and 87. 46%. Our model was able to distinguish the cytopathic effects from the normal cell morphology. This means that a simple CNN model was established to enhance the identification of influenza virus in clinical practice. Considering the broad applications of neural networks in various fields, we aimed to utilize convolutional neural network ( CNN ) to shorten the timing required for CPE identification and to improve the assay sensitivity. Based on the characteristics of influenza-induced CPE, a CNN model with larger sizes of filters and max-pooling kernels was constructed in the absence of transfer learning. A total of 601 images were used to train the model. The performance of the model was tested by using extra 400 images and the percentage of correct recognition was 99. 75%. To further examine the limit of our model in evaluating the changes of CPE overtime, additional 1190 images from a new experiment were used. The specificity of our model, examined by images of MDCK cells infected by six other non-influenza viruses, was 100%. Hence, a simple CNN model was established to enhance the identification of influenza virus in clinical practice.
Varicella zoster virus ( VZV ) is responsible for the spread of herpes viruses and causes chickenpox. The infection can be caused by a variety of factors including TNF-induced necroptosis, which leads to cell death. However, the mechanisms that are used to prevent this infection have not been fully understood. In order to understand how VZV can cause disease, we need to know how it can inhibit host cells. We have identified a novel viral RHIM in the capsid triplex protein, ORF 20, that acts as a host cell death inhibitor. Like the human RHIMs in RIPK1 and RIPK3, the ORF20 RHIM forms fibrillar functional amyloid complexes with human ZBP1, a cytoplasmic sensor of viral nucleic acid. Although VZV can inhibit TNF-induced necroptosis, the ORF20 RHIM does not appear to be responsible for this inhibition. In contrast, the ZBP1 pathway is identified as important for VZV infection. Mutation of the ORF20 RHIM renders the virus incapable of efficient spread in ZBP1-expressing HT-29 cells, an effect which can be reversed by the inhibition of caspases. Therefore we conclude that the ORF20 RHIM is important for preventing ZBP1-driven apoptosis during VZV infection. This study provides new insights into the role of the ORF20 RHIM in controlling the formation of heteromeric amyloid structures. ## Summary for a layman's dictionary : Varicella zoster virus ( VZV ), HSV-1, HSV-2, HCMV and MCMV.
The risk of schistosomiasis is driven by three components: exposure, hazard, and vulnerability. For schistosomiasis, the infection occurs through contact with water, which is often tied to daily activities. Water contact does not imply risk unless the environmental hazard of snails and parasites is also present in the water. By increasing reliance on hazardous activities and environments, socio-economic vulnerabilities can hinder reductions in exposure to a hazard. We collected data from 13 villages along the Senegal River, where 821 school-aged children resided, survey data from 411 households where those children resided, and ecological data from all 24 village water access sites. We fit mixed-effects logistic and negative binomial regressions with indices of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability as explanatory variables of S. haematobium presence and intensity. Model averaging quantified associations between each infection outcome and indices of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability, revealing a positive association between exposure and infection intensity ( OR = 1. 49, 95% CI 1. 12, 1. 97 ). Our findings underscore the linkages between social ( exposure and vulnerability ) and environmental ( hazard ) processes in the acquisition and accumulation of S. haematobium infection. This approach highlights the importance of implementing both social and environmental interventions to complement mass drug administration. In this study, we combined parasitological, ecological, and socio-economic data from 13 villages along the Senegal River to better understand the relative contributions of exposure, hazard, and vulnerability to the burden of urogenital schistosomiasis ( caused by Schistosoma haematobium ). We found that exposure, hazard, and vulnerability were the most important component of S. haematobium presence and intensity, followed by hazard, indicating that hazard and infection intensity are associated with the same proportion of incidence. These results highlight the need for integrating social and environmental interventions to complement mass drug administration in campaigns to control and eliminate schistosomiasis. This approach highlights the importance of implementing both social and environmental interventions to complement mass drug administration.
Lassa fever ( LF ) is one of the most prevalent hemorrhagic fevers in humans with an estimated 300, 000–500, 000 infections annually. The disease burden in Nigeria has been steadily increasing since 2017 with recurring outbreaks. In terms of global disease burden, LF is one of the most prevalent hemorrhagic fevers in humans with an estimated 300, 000–500, 000 infections annually. It remains unclear if the increased severity and frequency of outbreaks in countries like Nigeria is due to climatic changes impacting the ecology of the virus/rodent reservoirs or enhanced detection. Here we use guinea pigs and non-human primates to characterize lethal LASV isolates from the 2018 Nigerian outbreak. We found that only one of the three strains proved lethal in strain 13 guinea pigs and non-human primate models. This was not the first time that a species of animal had been tested for lassavirus infection. However, it was also the second time that a single strain of LASV was detected in a human model. These findings suggest there is considerable heterogeneity in LASV pathogenesis in West Africa, which could account for differences between subclinical and lethal cases of LF. The development of disease models using currently circulating LASV strains in West Africa is critical for understanding the scope of LASV pathogenesis and the possible discovery of a universal vaccine candidate that can be deployed throughout West Africa.
Schistosomes are blood dwelling parasites that cause acute and chronic debilitating diseases. The parasite is reported to alter the hematological and biochemical profiles in humans. Therefore, this study was aimed to evaluate the impact of S. mansoni infection on hematological and biochemical parameters among adult patients attending Haik Primary Hospital, Haik town, North-East Ethiopia. One hundred and eighty study participants consisting of 90 S. mansoni infected patients and 90 apparently healthy controls were recruited using systematic random sampling method. Socio-demographic characteristics and other variables were collected using questionnaires. Blood sample was examined microscopically to detect S. mansoni infection using direct wet mount and Kato Katz technique. In apparently healthy controls, S. mansoni infection was rule out using direct wet mount and Kato Katz technique. Blood sample was collected from each study participant to determine the hematological and biochemical profile. Data were entered into Epi Data version 3. 1 and analyzed using SPSS version 26. 0 software. Kolmogorov-Smirnov and Shapiro Wilk normality tests were done to assess the distribution of continuous variable between S. mansoni infected patients and apparently healthy controls. Kruskal Wallis H test showed a significant difference in the median of most hematological and biochemical parameters between moderate and heavy intensity of infection with light intensity of infection and apparently healthy controls. This study also showed significantly elevated values of serum alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, and direct bilirubin and lower albumin, total cholesterol and triglycerides among S. mansoni infected patients compared to apparently healthy controls. The findings of this study showed significantly altered hematological and biochemical parameters and providing treatment to the underlying abnormalities is very crucial to avoid schistosomiasis associated morbidity and mortality. Therefore, screening of S. mansoni infected patients for various hematological and biochemical parameters and providing treatment to the underlying abnormalities is very crucial to avoid schistosomiasis associated morbidity and mortality.
The hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) envelope glycoprotein E2 is the main cause of chronic infections worldwide. It can also lead to liver failure and cancer, but it has been thought that this disease could be prevented by developing an effective vaccine. However, many people infected with HCV have low titers of anti-E2 antibodies, which are associated with delayed or low-titer antibody responses. To understand how these immune cells respond to HCV infection, we used flow cytometry to identify B cells that were specifically targeted for HCV. We found that sE2-specific B cells from both persistently infected subjects and 12 individuals with spontaneous clearance of infection showed reduced frequencies of resting memory B cells, activated MBC ( actMBC ) and tissue-like MBC ( tlMBC ). In contrast, sE2-nonspecific B cells were significantly upregulated, suggesting that the ability of B cell function to produce high levels of protective antibodies against HCV may depend on the type of immunity. This suggests that the mechanisms underlying these suboptimal antibody response may be involved in the development of an efficient HCV vaccine. By using a cocktail of soluble E2 proteins as bait, we detected HCV E2-specific ( sE2+ ) class-switched B cells directly ex vivo at multiple acute infection timepoints. These samples were then quantitated at several acute infection timepoints, including those with either persistence or spontaneous clearance of infection. Our results suggest that the ability of B cell function to generate protective antibodies against HCV might contribute to the development of an effective HCV vaccine. These findings could help scientists develop strategies to limit upregulation of these molecules. These studies will likely provide new insights into the mechanism of HCV infection, and may help us design more accurate vaccines.